acquired certain Kerr assets, including factories, in 1992 and the Kerr brand of glass home canning jars was absorbed into Alltrista in 1996.
Product recalls 2014: contaminated meat In 2014, Nestle USA recalled 238,000 cases of its Hot Pockets because they may have contained meat from a massive recall of about 8.7 million pounds (3,900,000 kilograms) of meat from "diseased and unsound" animals.
Wine racks made of this material are normally used as ornamental pieces as they come in fluid shapes and can become real pieces of art.
The development of genetically modified food has led to one of the most persistent and divisive debates about mandatory labelling, which is one of the central topics in genetically modified food controversies.
The retort pouch construction varies from one application to another, as a liquid product needs different barrier properties than a dry product, and similarly an acidic product needs different chemical resistance than a basic product.
In 2018, Schanes, Dobernig and Gözet conducted a systematic review of household food waste practices and concluded that households face conflicts between good intentions to prevent food waste and preferences regarding taste, freshness, cleanliness and food safety.
The community garden won £1000 in funding from Aviva Community Fund in 2017, this was used for resources such as seeds to kickstart the growing of edible plants.
The allowable storage time for maize was found to decrease with an increase in mechanical damage (broken/cracked kernels).
In the United States, chains such as Dairy Queen, Carvel, and Tastee-Freez helped popularize soft-serve ice cream.
The user is supposed to search for the wines in his cellar on CellarTracker's database and then enter number of bottles and price (optional).
Anti-brown-bag law in New York, USA In 1967, it was stated that "brown-bagging is the genteel disguise ...
Sometimes called "green" milk jugs, they are not green in color, but rather are claimed to be environmentally friendly.
The tun is the approximate volume of a cylinder with both diameter and height of 42 in (110 cm), as the US gallon was originally a cylinder 7 by 6 in (180 by 150 mm) (diameter × height).
Sorbet (, ) is a frozen dessert made using ice combined with fruit juice, fruit purée, or other ingredients, such as wine, liqueur, or honey.
FOI also supports the country in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), by promoting food sovereignty and implementing responsible patterns of production and consumption.
Aseptic carton Cartons for liquids can be fabricated from laminates of liquid packaging board (LPB), foil, and polyethylene.
Unlike traditional Nalgene containers, this item can be damaged and potentially ruined by filling it with very hot water.
In 2010 BirdsEye Iglo Group purchased the Italian frozen food business Compagnia Surgelati Italiana SPA from Unilever for €0.8bn, and reunited the Findus brand in Sweden into the group that had previously been managed as one business under Unilever until 2006.
It is traditionally woven by hand and may involve additional physical support from other people, which usually comprise other family members or neighbours.
Production Industrial production of HDPE from ethylene happens through either Ziegler-Natta polymerization or the Phillips slurry process.
History Multilayer packaging was developed in the mid-20th century to overcome the performance limits of single-layer materials.
India Milk bags are commonplace in India, with an estimated 30% of milk sold in the country being packaged this way.
Blackstone Group and BC Partners made an unsuccessful bid of €2.5bn to buy Iglo from Permira in 2012.
With the advent of such facilities close to production areas, harvested fruits and vegetables could be preserved by freezing rather than by canning.
They may have either batter or breadcrumbs around the outside as casing, although the coating is normally breadcrumbs.
Polystyrene copolymers are also produced; these contain one or more other monomers in addition to styrene.
According to legend, it was made to contain the oil presented by the Virgin Mary to St Thomas of Canterbury.
Two principal types of amphorae existed: the neck amphora, in which the neck and body meet at a sharp angle; and the one-piece amphora, in which the neck and body form a continuous curve upwards.
An oenochoe, also spelled oinochoe (Ancient Greek: οἰνοχόη; from Ancient Greek: οἶνος, oînos, "wine", and Ancient Greek: χέω, khéō, lit.
The almonds are white for a wedding, First Communion or Confirmation; pink or light-blue for the birthday or baptism of a girl or boy; red for a graduation; and silver or gold for 25 or 50 year anniversaries.
Rationing during World War II forced her to cut back production due to the restricted availability of quality ingredients.
The service was broadcast on several national news networks and was attended by President Bill Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, Senator Ted Kennedy and Senator John Kerry (who flew non-stop from Burma, where he had been attending a diplomatic function).
Location After the dissolution of the monasteries, the buttery in large houses and colleges became a place for barrels, bottles, or butts of alcoholic drink, and from which they were brought up and served into the Great Hall.
Among these ingredients are white truffles from Alba, located in the Piedmont region of Italy, a place known as the premier origin of some of the most carefully cultivated and highly sought-after white truffles in the world.
In 1991 it entered the Athens Stock Exchange and in 1994 it was by bought by Delta dairy company (Daskalopoulos).
As late as the mid-17th century, French vintners did not use cork stoppers, using instead oil-soaked rags stuffed into the necks of bottles.
Programs Leket to Table: Meal Rescue Leket Israel rescues surplus hot meals and prepared food from 300 suppliers including hotels, army bases, corporate cafeterias, and others, providing a crucial daily source of nutrition to thousands of Israel’s needy.
Baines-Mosier Cabinet Company of Allegan, Michigan, was established in 1906, and had 24 employees in 1915.
However, Alexis Lichine says that low humidity can be a problem because it may cause organic corks to dry prematurely.
In 1803, furniture designer Thomas Sheraton described the piece as: "Cellaret, amongst cabinet makers, denotes a convenience for wine, or wine cistern.
For example, they can contribute up to 40% by weight to intravenous medical bags and up to 80% by weight in medical tubing.
In 1941 this company was acquired by the confectionery manufacturer Freja Marabou and was subsequently renamed Findus Canning Factory.
Because the sleeve prevented use of the weapon's regular sling some troops fashioned ad-hoc slings from rope that could be used over the Pliofilm.
A variety with a sweet cheese filling is served as a starter or main dish in dairy meals, specifically on Shavuot.
Recent studies have shown that bruchids sealed in PICS bags do not die from asphyxiation, but rather from dehydration.
After slaughter, care must be taken not to infect the meat through contact with any of the various sources of infection in the abattoir, notably the hides and soil adhering to them, water used for washing and cleaning, the dressing implements and the slaughterhouse personnel.
See also List of ice cream brands References External links Official website Guild of Fine Food video reviewing the product
See also Dabbawala Lunch box Sagejū, historical Japanese picnic container set to carry bento The Lunchbox (2013 Indian film) References Bibliography J.
Whipped cream is often used for frosting, as a complement to the two other textures, and because many typical frostings will not adhere successfully to frozen cake.
Criminal charges Involuntary manslaughter charges against Levesque and Barnes were initially dismissed, reinstated on appeal, and finally dismissed in January 2010.
Production of Pliofilm was hampered during World War II because the Japanese occupation of much of Southeast Asia cut off much of the rubber supply.
However, Linda Jones Roccos suggests that the maidens wearing both peplos and mantle implies they are kanephoroi, which would be consistent with the evidence of contemporary vase painting and wedding iconography.
This gradual degradation is desirable for a support structure, because it gradually transfers the load to the body (e.g., to the bone) as that area heals.
After taking apart the device, venture capitalist Ben Einstein considered the press to be "an incredibly complicated piece of engineering", which likely arose from a lack of cost constraints during the design process.
Praeger created the California Veggie Burger, which contains carrots, spinach, peas, edamame, and oat bran.
Totino's was founded as a restaurant in the 1950s in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which expanded to frozen foods in the 1960s.
Depending on the need, this paperboard can be waxed or coated with polyethylene to form a moisture barrier.
The Bocksbeutel (German: [ˈbɔksˌbɔɪ̯tl̩] ) is a type of wine bottle with the form of a flattened ellipsoid.
In another myth, the cornucopia was created when Heracles (Roman Hercules) wrestled with the river god Achelous and ripped off one of his horns; river gods were sometimes depicted as horned.
The first baleen (suqqaq, qupitalik, savigaaq in Iñupiaq) basket (aguummak, aguummaq in Iñupiaq) was made at Utqiagvik after the termination of commercial whaling.
These paper and plastic containers are lighter, cheaper and safer to both manufacture and ship to consumers.
Men of wealth had as many as three cellarettes at a time as a status symbol, not necessarily indicating one was a heavy drinker.
Timeline 1992: Weight Watchers Smart Ones line launched as a sub-brand of Weight Watchers® frozen meals.
In Arab countries they are called safartas (سفرطاس, from Turkish "sefer tası" meaning 'travel bowls').
However, the CIVC still recommends storing Champagne on its side, stating that: Champagne is ready for drinking upon release, matured to perfection in the producer’s cellars.
After the Korean War, with the introduction of condensed milk, syrup, and chocolate from the United States, together with the mass migration of Korean immigrants who brought their culinary cuisine to the US, Korean bingsu began to be more diverse.
Due to its porosity, fired earthenware, with a water absorption of 5-8%, must be glazed to be watertight.
Food safety regulations limit the amount of pathogens such as Listeria to safe limits (100 CFU/g in Europe).
Health concern Plastic materials are widely used in the food industry due to their low price and convenience; however, there has been an increased health concern because of the possibility of releasing undesirable chemicals from plastic materials into food products.
Feeding Hong Kong is regarded as a food recycling operations, rather than a welfare group, so it does not receive public funding and relied on help from volunteers and donors.
Initial Uno Express locations were inside BJ's Wholesale Club stores, by 2012 all had closed and converted to Dunkin' Donuts or Subway locations.
In the Book of Judges, Gideon gives empty pitchers containing lamps to three hundred men divided into three companies.
Medical use Thermal pharmaceutical bags are designed to transport temperature-sensitive medications, protecting them from damaging temperatures, shocks, and light.
Environmental issues Foam takeout containers entirely made out of polystyrene foam affect the environment as they do not biodegrade easily.
The packaging consists of a natural soft membrane (made from food particles, alginate/chitosan, and nutritive ions) that encloses the food or drink, optionally protected by a hard shell that is edible or biodegradable.
As early as 1908, the Chico Ice and Cold Storage company in California began to offer rental locker space.
In 2007, the site of the first Lender's bagel bakery was dedicated as a playground; it was named after one of Harry Lender's sons: “Murray Lender Playground”.
Scientific workflow systems assist scientists and programmers with tracking their data through all transformations, analyses, and interpretations.
In Canada, the brand Le Sieur has been used since at least 1964, instead of Le Sueur – presumably to avoid the implications of the French word sueur (i.e., "sweat").
The role was given to a virgin selected from amongst the aristocratic or Eupatrid families of Athens whose purity and youth was thought essential to ensure a successful sacrifice.
Some believe this re-bottling exposes the champagne to greater oxidation and therefore results in an inferior product compared to champagne which remains in the bottle in which it was fermented.
In side-by-side comparisons for white wines, one panel had shown preference for non-corked wines at the level of 20 ng/L of TCA, while another study found the "rejection threshold" to be between 3.1 and 3.7 ng/L.
During the Tang dynasty, ewers fashioned from glazed earthenware bore illustrations of Persian textiles and metalwork and depicted increased cultural diversity in populated Chinese cities.
In the 1990s, Russia started importing foreign brands of ice cream, and the state standards were dropped.
History Gastronorm originated in Switzerland during the 1960s when various associations gathered and agreed on standard dimensions for movable kitchen inserts and containers such as pans, trays, wire racks as well as other kitchen utensils and equipment.
One Sam's Club store reported fitting 224 square gallon jugs in an area that only held 80 traditional one gallon jugs.
In 2021 Iron Gate launched Canada's first auction dedicated to wine and spirits and as of YE2022 became the largest wine auction in the country with auctions frequently hammering over $1,000,000 per sale.
Form While the term "olive jar" was used in archaeology from early in the 20th century, John Mann Goggin created the first typology for olive jars in the mid-20th century.
Availability Fowler's Vacola products are still produced by the original Fowlers Vacola company, and are available from some hardware stores, and directly from the company via their online store.
Bear canisters are seeing increased popularity in areas where bears have become habituated to human presence, and are required in some places, such as Yosemite National Park in the United States.
TCA is studied in detail and considered to be the main source of the issue (in some surveys, the TCA was present in all the bottles assessed to be tainted).
The dessert takes the form of a ball that is composed of two or more flavors of gelato, often with melted chocolate inserted into the center (following the original recipe) or alternatively, with either fruit syrup or frozen fruit—typically raspberry, strawberry or cherry—in the center.
Another myth suggests that Charles I of England was so impressed by the "frozen snow" that he offered his own ice cream maker a lifetime pension in return for keeping the formula secret, so that ice cream could be a royal prerogative.
The oldest known document containing an image of an hórreo is the Cantigas de Santa Maria (song CLXXXVII) written during the reign of Alfonso X of Castile in the 13th century.
In other countries Taiwan The bento made its way to Taiwan in the first half of the 20th century during the Japanese colonial period and remains popular to the present day.
Among Agnes Blackwell Herrick's papers was a copy of the Paris Embassy's Dinner Party Record from 1921 to 1922.
With one hand on the outside and one on the inside, the potter's hands would press together and form the upward curve of the hydria.
In areas where grain has always been sold immediately after harvest, storage areas may not exist for PICS bags.
The wine-storage area of the buttery, in keeping with the higher value of its contents, was often more richly decorated to reflect the higher status of its function.
One jar from those wrecks, containing pitch, had a thin piece of leather placed over the opening with a cork stopper inserted over it, so that the leather may have acted as a gasket.
Wine bottles are traditionally sealed with a cork, but screw-top caps are becoming popular, and there are several other methods used to seal a bottle.
See also Frozen food Canned food Cold chain References External links How Frozen Vegetables are Made
Disposable containers are often made of paper or paperboard, plastic (including plastic foam), or aluminum.
Route 169 an enormous wooden sign of the Jolly Green Giant, along with the Little Green Sprout, is visible with the caption "Welcome to the Valley." Sixty miles (97 km) further south on US 169, in the city of Blue Earth, Minnesota, stands a 55-foot (17 m) fiberglass statue of the Jolly Green Giant.
From the same source come the German Krapfen ("deep-fried pastry") and its East Central German dialectal variant Kräppel, as well the Silesian Krepel ("doughnut").
They continued to be used through the first half of the 20th century; however, usage began to decline with the introduction of free-flowing salt in 1911, and they have been almost entirely replaced by salt shakers.
Losses are still fairly high with this technique, though it has been shown in some instances to keep tubers for 2–4 months.
The USDA lists the cutoffs for broken maize as anything that falls through a 12/64 round-hole sieve, and broken soybeans as anything that falls through an 8/64 round-hole sieve.
The bonding together of the fibres during production improves not only the strength, porosity and elasticity, but also the tear-resistance.
In 1921, the Eskimo Pie chocolate bar was invented in Iowa by a pharmacy owner named Chris Nelson, who was inspired by a boy named Douglas Ressenden who could not decide between candy and ice cream; a patent was awarded in 1922, but invalidated in 1928.
Modern innovations in the United States Congregations and synods belonging to the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America have made Easter baskets to be given to needy children or elderly persons.
Beginning around 8500 BC, however, they were moved inside houses, and by 7500 BC special rooms were used for storage.
Machines for producing these do not require a pressure chamber, and as a result, they are much cheaper and easier to maintain due to their simpler mechanics.
The interior diameter of an average small qullqa was 3.23 metres (10.6 ft); larger qullqas have a diameter of around 3.5–4.0 metres (11.5–13.1 ft).
Security researchers are interested in data provenance because it can analyze suspicious data and make large opaque systems transparent.
Over the years King of Pops has made almost 500 flavors, most of which are between three and five ingredients.
Swanson (1879–1949) was a Swedish immigrant who worked on a farm in Blair, Nebraska, until he moved to Omaha.
Moisture control Grain must be kept away from moisture for as long as possible to preserve it in good condition and prevent mold growth.
Other non-luxury ingredients include milk, sugar, egg yolk, rice and rice malt, black truffle, brewed alcohol, cashew nuts and unspecified dairy products.
Recently the bottle has become a standard unit of volume to describe sales in the wine industry, measuring 750 millilitres (26.40 imp fl oz; 25.36 US fl oz).
The statue was first unveiled in 1978 and was set on its permanent base on July 6, 1979, at 43°39′02″N 94°5′46″W.
Many have survived, some being renovated to commemorate the practice, while others have been dismantled or left to decay.
Measuring Broken/Cracked Kernels There are many methods available for determining mechanical grain damage.
Business development By 2001 the retail value of the brand was over £50 million and it had become one of the top 100 brands in Britain.
In 2004 a joint Swedish-Danish research team found a statistical association between allergies in children and indoor air levels of DEHP and BBzP (butyl benzyl phthalate), which is used in vinyl flooring.
Some stands remain in the countryside as historical features, but most have been dismantled or left to decay.
An innovative picnic hamper advertised for American families in 1953 was designed to clamp over the seat at the back of the family car.
Manufacturers claim that this rectangular design has cut water use by 67% to 70%, according to one dairy, since there are no crates to be cleaned; the absence of dirty crates also reduces the risk of jugs carrying contamination.
The British dominated the world shipping industry and began fitting their ships for cold air containers, and built new refrigerated steamers.
The circular interior of the game larder at Holkham Hall in Norfolk is lined with alabaster; designed by Samuel Wyatt, the octagonal building dates from 1803.
There is also a translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint, made in the last few centuries BCE.
Up until this point, frozen salads had existed, but they were only readily available to those who could afford and host large salt and ice freezers and to those who could visit the expensive hotels and restaurants that would serve them.
1 July 2002, https://www.ift.org/news-and-publications/food-technology-magazine/issues/2002/july/features/the-paper-beverage-carton-past-and-future.
Dip & Squeeze is the brand name of a type of packaging for tomato ketchup used by Heinz Tomato Ketchup.
Commercial food logistics Grain and beans are stored in tall grain elevators, almost always at a railhead near the point of production.
The dough is allowed to ferment for a few days, before part of the dough is cooked and then mixed with uncooked dough.
Operation Most of the goods in the storehouse are purchased with fast offering funds or produced on church-owned agricultural property.
In January 2025, the corporate About Us page claimed locations in Honduras and Qatar but listed foreign locations only in Saudi Arabia and India.
A Chick-Fil-A executive said that some consumers at the chain were hoarding the packets after they were introduced.
It could be made thinner by stretching whilst being heated and thicknesses of 0.00075–0.025 inches (0.019–0.635 mm) were sold.
This is causing the paper to elongate 4% in machine direction and 10% in cross direction before busting.
Lean Cuisine is a brand of frozen entrées and dinners sold in the United States by Nestlé Prepared Foods, in Canada by Nestlé Canada, and in Australia by Vesco (under a licensing agreement with Nestlé).
Similarly, the development of Sheffield plate (18th century), then electroplating (19th century), led to mass production of affordable silver-plated wares, including salt cellars.
Infestation by insects such as the maize weevil can sometimes be easier to identify visually, but difficult to quantify on a large scale.
Solar direct-drive refrigerators don't require batteries, instead using thermal energy to solar power.
834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 — on the provision of food information to consumers.
An octagonal room was constructed for a wine library and a round domed room was added in the complex's center.
With flexible packaging (plastic films, foils, laminates, etc), the choice of materials and process conditions are an important decision for packaging engineers.
In the late 2010s, during a period of long stretches of dry weather" on the Island, potato growers in the area around Spring Valley, Prince Edward Island began to construct large holding ponds of water "seeking to improve potato yields".
Pliny identified three different types of coopers: ordinary coopers, wine coopers and coopers who made large casks.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
Many different varieties of frozen and chilled ready meals are now generally available in the UK, including "gourmet" recipes, organic and vegetarian dishes, traditional British and foreign cuisine, and smaller children's meals.
Wafer ice cream vendors also sell the same blocks of ice cream on slices of multicoloured bread, on cones or in cups instead of sandwiched between wafers.
Revival efforts by Indian Railways and criticism In 2004, the Indian Railways (then under the leadership of minister Laloo Prasad Yadav) attempted to revive the use of kulhars for tea and other beverages sold at railway stations and aboard trains.
Memorials A memorial service and procession for the firefighters were held in Worcester's Centrum Centre on December 9, 1999.
GrapeStories relied on the same database as CellarTracker, but was intended to be a more user-friendly approach to tracking wine and sharing wine experiences as well as providing a better interface.
In its final form, the thin cork liner created a gas-tight seal, while the metal cap held it in place with a series of crimped "flutes" that locked under the bottle's head.
History While ice cream sandwiches have been sold in New York City since the 1890s, New York lawyer Richard LaMotta created the Chipwich in 1978.
The Gatt agreements signed in Marrakesh in 1994 required the EU to reduce its export aid, and Doux lost half its export market.
History Poire belle Hélène was invented around 1864 by Auguste Escoffier, who created it as a tribute to the popularity of Offenbach’s operetta La belle Hélène.
The technology is the result of a project that started in 1997 and staffed by a team of 55 researchers with a budget cost of 15 billion won (US$49.2 million).
The pitcher of Marwan Ibn Mohammad, on display at the Museum of Islamic Art in Cairo, predates the 8th century.
Steel cans also extend the product's shelf-life, allowing longer sell-by and use-by dates and reducing waste.
Often, it is made of jute and has a content of 60 kilograms (130 pounds); this type of bag originated in Brazil and became a worldwide standard.
Medical use Some studies have suggested that wrapping premature babies in plastic wrap immediately after birth may help prevent low temperature before arrival to the neonatal intensive care unit.
As the volume is reduced during the reaction (PVC is denser than VCM), water is continually added to the mixture to maintain the suspension.
History The company started from a small factory on Balakong Road, Selangor with only 5 workers, producing a wide range of ice cream such as ice cream sticks, ice cream in cups, ice cream in cones, ice cream in tubs and ice cream with wafers but only limited to Malaysia during that time.
An 1897 recipe published in The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book by American writer Fannie Farmer was a pineapple–chestnut ice cream with candied fruit and raisins, served with maraschino syrup.
Variations are countless, but ice cream, flan, and fruit in syrup (peach or pineapple) are its staple ingredients.
Commercial heat sources for self-heating food packaging use an exothermic (heat releasing) reaction, for which there are several common formulations.
Together, FOI, along with its donors and volunteers, has distributed 1,246 tons or 88,095 food packages to FOI clients, including children, victims of natural disasters, the elderly, informal workers, and others.
Instead, it is the information contained within the label that can provide consumers with such knowledge.
The screens passage generally had two or three doors on the side opposite its entrances into the Great Hall, which led, respectively, to the buttery, kitchen, and pantry, each of which formed separate household departments.
The simple purpose of the stand was to facilitate collection of milk churns by cart or lorry and so were built at a convenient height for easy transfer.
ConAgra sells a broad array of dishes through its Healthy Choice brand, including frozen dinners, side dishes, cold cuts and other meats, canned soups, ice cream, bread, pasta sauce, and popcorn.
Name variations In Canada, corn dogs are often called "Pogos" after the popular brand produced by Conagra.
Busto-Zapico In a paper published in 2020, Miguel Busto-Zapico analysed 40 jars found in Spain, all made in Seville.
Development and delays When Grepper launched the Kickstarter campaign for the Coolest, the company planned to deliver to backers their Coolest reward in February 2015.
However, the problem with an icebox was that the cabinet housing was large, but the actual refrigerated space was relatively small.
Charitable hamper There is a long tradition of community and social philanthropy and charity related to hampers, in which persons or community groups donate to needy people a hamper of food, clothing, toiletries, cleaning products, or other household necessities, to assist with their family economy.
The side branches mean that its molecules are less tightly packed and less crystalline, and therefore its density is lower.
Most champagne houses are unable to carry out secondary fermentation in bottles larger than a magnum due to the difficulty in riddling large, heavy bottles.
Sweeteners, flavorings, and colorings are then mixed in, and the yogurt mixture is cooled at a temperature of −6 to −2 °C (28 °F).
Jeremiah 24 is a part of the Eighth prophecy (Jeremiah 21-24) in the section of Prophecies of Destruction (Jeremiah 1-25).
The average weight of an empty 750 mL wine bottle is 500 g (and can range from 300 to 900 g), which makes the glass 40% of the total weight of the full bottle.
According to estimates from the Aluminum Association, a large amount of aluminium remains unrecycled in the US, where roughly $700 million worth of cans end up in landfills each year.
When a stream of water is injected into the bottle and impacts the punt, it is distributed throughout the bottom of the bottle and removes residues.
It allows the sterile packaging of a wide variety of food and drink handled by aseptic processing and is used as an alternative to traditional industrial canning methods.
This would reduce the cost of transportation and its carbon footprint, and provide a local market for recycled green glass.
Other artistic depictions were provided by Botticelli (Banchetto per Nastagio degli Onesti) and Ghirlandaio (Buonomini di San Martino and The Birth of John the Baptist).
This is a common approach in industrial food production, but concerns about health hazards associated with trans fats have led to their strict control in several jurisdictions.
Purpose A 1852 publication lists other produce being sold in punnets in British markets, including sea kale, mushrooms, small salad and tomatoes.
They are born within social contexts of poverty and unemployment, as subsistence organizations or "popular micro-associations that developed to satisfy a basic and functional need", hunger.
Incineration: PLA can be incinerated without producing chlorine-containing chemicals or heavy metals because it contains only carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen atoms.
On August 28, 2006, it was confirmed that Unilever had agreed to the sale of the UK brand, held since the late 1930s, to private equity house Permira for £1.2bn.
See also Internet of things – Internet-like structure connecting everyday physical objects Value proposition – Promise of value to be delivered, communicated, and acknowledged References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2017-08-24)
The preforms can be transported and stored by the thousand in a much smaller space than would finished containers, for the second stage to be carried out on the user site on a 'just in time' basis.
Direct contact freezing puts the product directly in contact with the refrigerant, while indirect contact freezing uses a plate in between.
They chopped up the slivers, added flour and seasoning, then pushed the mash through holes and sliced off pieces of the extruded mixture.
On June 1, 2023, Tupperware stopped supplying an independent sales force in the UK and Ireland and moved fully to selling online and via the shopping TV channel Ideal World, shortly before Ideal World itself went out of business in early July 2023.
See also Fly fishing Weaving (mythology) Basket weaving Lobster pot References External links Northumbria Basketry Group Decorate A Wicker Clothes Basket The dictionary definition of creel at Wiktionary: for its etymology
It is based on a recipe introduced in 1839 by the cook of a German nobleman, Prince Hermann Ludwig Heinrich von Pückler-Muskau.
In July, the city council unanimously approved a temporary moratorium to permit Little Free Libraries on private property.
1998: Heinz consolidates the Weight Watchers frozen meals under the Weight Watchers® Smart Ones® brand name.
In Okinawa, Japan, where awamori is made, the traditional system similar to the solera is called shitsugi.
CaAlg2 + 2NaCl → 2NaAlg + CaCl2 Because it is a single-strand polymer, alginate can be depolymerized (broken into smaller units) by a variety of chemical reactions.
The concept of a food container has existed for a long time, but it was not until people began using tobacco tins to carry meals in the early 20th century, followed by the use of lithographed images on metal, that the containers became a staple of youth, and a marketable product.
The Food Standards Agency was reported as supporting the change, provided the food had been stored correctly up to that time.
See also Corrugated box Tetra Pak Elopak Notes References Yam, K.L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 The Paper Beverage Carton: Past and Future.
In his autobiography, The Time of My Life, Hedberg recounts how Wyman was receptive to the idea – on the condition that funds for the project were raised locally, and that the company had to give approval to the final design.
The main ingredient of bingsu was natural ice in the past, but later, artificial ice was produced, and high-quality sweeteners were developed.
All DVD releases can be purchased on the Cartoon Network Shop, and the individual episodes can be downloaded from both the iTunes Store and Amazon.com.
Additionally, in Australia the term "silverpillow" is used to refer to the habit of inflating the empty bag and using it as a headrest.
The proposed idea of a smart fridge that could keep track of its contents with "a bar-code reader within the fridge" had become popular in various technology newspapers.
Creels in Scotland The word creel is also used in Scotland to refer to a device used to catch lobsters and other crustaceans.
However, it is normal for meat to lose 1–2 percent of its weight due to this liquid loss, while anything more is considered excessive.
Hoosier Cabinet First developed in the early 1900s by the Hoosier Manufacturing Company in New Castle, Indiana, and popular into the 1930s, the Hoosier cabinet and its many imitators soon became an essential fixture in American kitchens.
In India some company brands like Hindustan Unilever sell frozen dessert made from vegetable oils rather than pure milk.
The court ruled that Mason's delay in protecting his patent indicated he had abandoned his invention in the intervening years between 1859 and 1868 and had forfeited his patent.
Campaigns Love For Planet Campaign By recycling the collected airtight containers, 'upcycling eco-bag' was introduced to practice continuous resource circulation.
The defining characteristic of a Ramly Burger is the patty itself wrapped in an omelette and topped with several condiments, which may include ketchup, mayonnaise, chili sauce, Maggi seasoning, and/or Worcestershire sauce, depending on the vendor.
The building was constructed for $100,000 (equivalent to $3,600,000 in 2025) and could store 500 train-car loads of perishable items at temperatures between 10 and 60 °F (−12 and 16 °C).
"Nova sloga" has the exclusive rights to exploit water in the field Mivela in Veluće, eight kilometers from Trstenik on an area of 4,125 square kilometers.
Milton was employed as an engineer at Dairy Farmers when the company asked him to develop a new crate to replace the existing wire and wooden designs, which were prone to bending and breaking, damaging glass bottles and interrupting automated handling lines.
Procopio obtained French citizenship, and a royal license from Louis XIV, making him the sole producer of the frozen dessert in the kingdom.
Bol shared his idea with his partner, Rick Brooks, and together they built and installed more of the bookhouses in different areas of the Midwestern United States.
In addition to purchasing food equipment, Mikoyan brought many food recipes from the United States, one of which was ice cream.
History Its first mentions come from Ancient Greece, where, in parties called Bacchanalia, dedicated to the god Bacchus by the vintage of this drink, the sacrifice of the goat was offered, following which the wineskin could be made that would conserve the wine.
Translation, introduction and commentary, Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore and London, 1983.
It has a light, airy texture likened to mousse or light cake that is created by whipping air into the mixture before freezing.
In many restaurants, it is a station which is generally an entry-level cooking position within a restaurant, as it often involves preparing salads or other smaller plates which can be heated and quickly plated without significant experience.
For instance, suppose the solera consists of three barrels of wine, and half of each barrel is transferred once a year.
Earlier, the Coppes brothers had a sawmill business, a box manufacturing factory, and a furniture manufacturing company.
It is much stronger and lighter than common plaster-of-Paris ornaments, and is not so liable to chip or break if struck with anything.
Older unused lids should be discarded, as sealing compound is only good for about five years from date of manufacture.
Most wine bottles standards have a bore (inner neck) diameter of 18.5 mm at the mouth of the bottle and increase to 21 mm before expanding into the full bottle.
History Juicero was founded in San Francisco, California, in 2013 by Doug Evans, who served as CEO until October 2016, when former president of Coca-Cola North America Jeff Dunn took over the position.
Points are added for "healthy" nutrients including fibre, protein and fruit, vegetable, nut and legume content; whilst points are deducted for "unhealthy" nutrients: energy, saturated fat, sodium and sugar.
In addition, the batteries require maintenance, must be replaced approximately every three years, and must be disposed of as hazardous wastes possibly resulting in lead pollution.
The company exports over 50% of its products to more than 70 countries, with key markets in the Middle East, the European Union, and Africa, with over 25 logistics hubs in Ukraine and abroad.
The first, "Food Chain", was helmed by noted Japanese animator Masaaki Yuasa, and was entirely animated by Yuasa's own studio.
These products differ from prepackaged dehydrated noodles in a number of ways: in flavor, in texture, and in that they normally come packaged with ingredients besides the noodles, such as vegetables, meat, and soup stock.
The most exotic designs were produced in the early years of the 20th century, just prior to the First World War.
As of 2022, Newell manufactures canning jars under the brand names Ball, Bernardin, Golden Harvest, and Kerr.
At the same time, the Bordeaux-style bottle (bordolese) was becoming more popular among wine producers, displacing the fiasco.
Note that a 252-gallon tun of wine has a mass of approximately 2,060 lb (930 kg), between a short ton (2,000 lb (910 kg)) and a long ton (2,240 lb (1,020 kg)).
Catalonia In certain areas of the Pyrenees in Catalonia a type of olla, known locally as tupí, is used as container for the preparation of tupí, a certain type of cheese.
It is commonly made of metal or plastic, is reasonably airtight and often has a handle for carrying.
Scholars have noted that as food systems scaled up and grew more impersonal, regulators across regions—from Europe and North America to East Asia—began using labels to simulate the trust once derived from local, interpersonal food markets.
Food insecure individuals, who live in low-income communities experience higher rates of chronic disease, leading to healthcare costs which create more financial hardships.
The game larder at Abbotsford House in Selkirkshire, built by John Smith of Darnick in 1851, takes the form of a circular castle, with crenellations.
The brand name "Lean Cuisine" is considered by the FDA as a nutrient content claim, so all Lean Cuisine items are required to meet the "lean" criteria of less than 10 g fat, 4.5 g or less saturated fat, and less than 95 mg cholesterol.
Still named the Wooster Company, the new group began to produce rubber household products under the Rubbermaid brand name.
Toppings were then added, and three types of tapioca pearls: glass pearls for crunchiness, Thai tea pearls for color and aroma, and black tea pearls for texture and sweetness.
Frozen yogurt (also known as frogurt or by the tradename Froyo; ) is a frozen dessert made with yogurt and sometimes other dairy and non-dairy products.
The combination of flavors varies; Anna Hezel, writing for Bon Appétit, describes a combination of orange, lime, and raspberry, while Baskin-Robbins sells a version with orange, raspberry, and pineapple.
Carl von Linde, an engineering professor at the Technological University Munich in Germany, patented an improved method of liquefying gases in 1876, creating the first reliable and efficient compressed-ammonia refrigerator.
History Bingsu has similar origins to sorbet, with fruit- and milk-flavored ice-based confectionary documented as far back as 400 BCE.
One inch (2.5 cm) of gravel covering the floor periodically sprinkled with a little water was recommended to retain the desired humidity.
The Central Warehouse is a former refrigeration warehouse building in North Albany, a neighborhood of Albany, New York, and considered a landmark of the community and city.
Europe In the United Kingdom, Ross Frozen Foods once produced "Oven Crunchies", although generic versions remain widely available.
Once the full churns had been removed they were replaced by the haulier with empty ones for refilling by the next collection time.
Glass is a relatively heavy packing material and wine bottles use quite thick glass, so the tare weight of a full wine bottle is a relatively high proportion of its gross weight.
To counter the shortcomings of the 1971 law, the VDP nowadays classifies the best vineyards by its own rules into 'VDP.Grosse Lage' (Grand cru) and 'VDP.Erste Lage' (Premier cru) based on 19th century Prussian tax maps.
The brand was later applied to waffle mix, potato chips, and eventually to the frozen waffle for which it is primarily known today.
People are referred to the food banks by professionals such as doctors, social services, Citizens Advice and police, and receive a food bank voucher.
Carbonated slushie machines often freeze to a temperature well below the freezing point of water, but the combination of pressure up to 40 psi (2.8 bar), the carbon dioxide mixture that freezes at −80 °C (−112 °F), the sugar, and the constant stirring prevent the mass from freezing solid.
In the American television sitcom Friends (1994-2004), Helena Handbasket is the drag name of Charles Bing, the gay father of main character Chandler Bing.
Bagel Bites are available in six flavors: Cheese & Pepperoni; Three Cheese; Cheese, Sausage & Pepperoni; Mozzarella Cheese; Supreme; Cheesy Garlic Bread; and Extreme Nacho.
This is known as a "single nougat" in Scotland, with a double nougat (pronounced nugget) having nougat wafers on both sides.
These types of smaller tin boxes are sometimes reused to store items, or to create kits, such as a survival kit.
A granary, also known as a grain house and historically as a granarium in Latin, is a post-harvest storage building primarily for grains or seeds.
Coffee beans are usually transported in large jute sacks, while coffee sold to consumers may be packaged as beans or ground coffee in a small, sealed plastic bag.
Several technologies such as annealing, adding nucleating agents, forming composites with fibers or nano-particles, chain extending and introducing crosslink structures have been used to enhance the mechanical properties of PLA polymers.
They are often used for small, delicate fruits like strawberries, raspberries, and blueberries, which require careful packaging to prevent bruising.
Uses Chub packs are used to pack semi-solid materials such as: sausage ground beef and ground turkey dog food cheese spreads frostings bread dough cookie dough creamed corn drywall compound explosive slurries See also Tube (container) Notes References Yam, K.
The verb " to hamper," to entangle, obstruct, hinder, especially used of disturbing the mechanism of a lock or other fastening so as to prevent its proper working, is of doubtful origin.
Oceania In Australia and New Zealand, they are known as "potato gems", "potato royals", or "potato pom-poms".
These repeated visits drew public attention and contributed significantly to the dessert's reputation and commercial expansion.
The removal of wine from the flexible bag without adding air to fill the vacated space greatly reduces the oxidation of the wine during dispensing.
Japan In early 20th century, Fujii Rin'emo travelled to United States to study Westerned styled food.
Safe storage times vary by food and may depend on how the food was handled before being placed in the refrigerator.
The Totinos sold their frozen pizza business to the Pillsbury Company in 1975, where Rose Totino was named as vice-president.
History According to ConAgra's official corporate history, Healthy Choice came into being after then-ConAgra CEO Charles "Mike" Harper suffered a heart attack in 1985.
In 2019, an estimated 2.4 million meals (meat and two side dishes) will be collected and redistributed to 80+ NPO partners throughout the country (an average of 46,000+ hot meals weekly) including soup kitchens, homeless shelters, last chances schools, and others.
From the second half of the 19th century, milk has been packaged and delivered in reusable and returnable glass bottles.
The emulsion is turned into foam by incorporating air cells which are frozen to form dispersed ice cells.
Food preservation, storage, and transport, including timely delivery to consumers, are important to food security, especially for the majority of people worldwide who rely on others to produce their food.
Orzas were usually made with the same paste as ''botijas, making it difficult to assign many sherds to a particular style of container.
The toast may include cheese on one or both sides, similar to an open-faced grilled cheese sandwich.
Uruguay In Uruguay, an ice cream sandwich (sánguche helado) or triple sandwich (sánguche triple) is typically a neapolitan ice cream (helado triple) sandwich prepared with wafers such as the one in the image.
To create extra volume and smooth consistency, the air is incorporated into the yogurt as the mixture is agitated.
Overland cattle drives moved large herds to the railheads in Kansas, where cattle cars brought live animals eastward.
Disposal of discarded refrigerators is regulated, often mandating the removal of doors for safety reasons.
Cortellazzi (1952) of Marmirolo were the first to produce muselets (or wirehoods) in Italy, the brilliant idea of A.
In the 1980s, TV dinners, quiches, flans, sandwiches, pizzas, ethnic snacks, pastas, and soups were kept chilled.
Indian River Farms Indian River Farms, which is also owned Irving group of companies, is managed by Elizabeth Irving, who is a fifth generation family member.
Smith's Pies bakeries serving the Northeast United States by 1930, including two bakeries in Pennsylvania: one in York, and one in the Logan neighborhood of Philadelphia.
Fruits and vegetables would be placed directly on the slatted shelves to encourage airflow around them.
'truffle'), also known as tartufo di Pizzo, is an Italian dessert of gelato originating in the comune (municipality) of Pizzo, Calabria.
The emergence of large-scale ranching, the role of the railroads, refrigeration, and entrepreneurial skills.
raised concerns for groundwater sustainability." In their January 2020 article in the journal Water, the authors write that an "inventory of groundwater is necessary for efficient water resource management, especially in relation to growing groundwater demands for agricultural use.
The concern about microwave popcorn bags has increased in terms of the waste and their harmful impacts on the environment.
Variations In 1969, the recently invented microwave oven enabled the Hungarian gastrophysicist Nicholas Kurti to produce a reverse baked Alaska (also called a "Frozen Florida")—a frozen shell of meringue filled with hot liquor.
Davide Andreani of Italy is in the Guinness Book of World Records for having the largest collection of soda cans of one specific brand in the world, with over 20,000 cans in his collection.
In February 2023, the Uno Foods division, including the production facility in Brockton, Massachusetts, was sold to Great Kitchen Food Company, a property of Brynnwood Partners.
In rest of the European Union, a trade organization called European Ice Cream Association calls for minimum dairy fat content of 5%.
Also during this time, the company bought its first freezing machines in the US and initiated the development of a trading frozen poultry to the Middle East.
Café liégeois is a French cold dessert made from lightly sweetened coffee, coffee-flavoured ice cream and Chantilly cream.
Both men and women wore necklaces, bracelets and pendants made of shell, stone, bone and dried berries.
1850-1914." Food and globalization: consumption, markets, and politics in the modern world (Berg, 2008) pp: 153–73.
In the gospels of Mark and Luke, Jesus tells two of his disciples to go into the city of Jerusalem, where they will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water (Greek: κεράμιον ὕδατος : kerámion hydatos), and instructs them to follow him to locate the upper room to be used for the Last Supper.
Punita (2020) Tiffin: An Untold Story Further reading Caldicott, Carolyn; Caldicott, Chris (17 August 2014).
It is also essential that grain intended to be stored in PICS bags be thoroughly dried prior to storage to prevent mold growth and grain rot.
It was cheap enough to be disposable, selling for just twenty-five cents per gross, a fraction of the cost of reusable stoppers.
Schwan quickly halted the production and sale of the company's ice cream and began a public-awareness campaign asking people not to eat Schwan's ice cream products.
The contents of the hamper may be decanted regularly into larger containers or a cart, wagon, or truck.
Since 1988, Tee Yih Jia started the expansion of its business activities beyond its initial markets into countries like China, Taiwan and the USA.
Other projects competing with PICS bags to prevent insect-induced post-harvest grain losses are other forms of hermetically sealed containers, such as the Grain-pro bag.
Campers making a campfire in the same location time after time can deplete the available wood in the area, which impacts the natural habitat of the animals.
Two years later, Richard Pistell was president, and Ashton would go on to become chairman of the company.
Under her management, Pepperidge Farm continued to expand into other products, including frozen pastry items and, later, the Goldfish snack cracker from Switzerland.
The main purpose of a liquor cabinet or cellarette was to secure wine and whiskey from theft as the bottles were hidden and the cabinet could have a lock.
Today, Americans consume approximately 70 million pounds (32,000 t) of Tater Tots, or 3,710,000,000 Tots per year.
Following the Korean War and post-war occupation, raw materials became scarce and cheap tin lunchboxes made from scrap metal were used to contain a simple meal of rice, banchan, and some protein.
This book contains prophecies attributed to the prophet Jeremiah, and is one of the Books of the Prophets.
It was defined as a liquid preparation made from cooked sago passed through a sieve and mixed with coconut milk, salt and sugar.
Way Fong is considered as one of the dominant brands and a major player in the frozen dumplings market.
The basic format is called "GN 1/1" and measures 530×325 mm, with other Gastronorm sizes being multiples and fractions of this basic module size.
Milk which is sold in pre-packaged containers that are non-returnable must be labelled in metric units.
The process of making helado de paila developed in the highlands of northern Ecuador and southern Colombia, including in Imbabura Province and Nariño Department.
Newly harvested grain brought into a granary tends to contain excess moisture, which encourages mold growth leading to fermentation and heating, both of which are undesirable and affect quality.
It was the deadliest fire in South Korea since the Daegu subway fire on 18 February 2003, which killed 192 people.
Flip-top The "flip-top", "swing-top" or "Grolsch" style consists of a plastic or ceramic stopper held in place by a set of wires.
In 1993, Ravel created a self-contained wine cooling unit, which would come to be one of the companies most lucrative products.
acquired the Libby's trademark license for preserved foods in the UK, Ireland and Portugal with the exceptions of corned beef, pumpkin and fruit juices.
As carbonated water is dispensed, the mixer tank is automatically refilled with cold water and carbon dioxide, ensuring a continuous supply of carbonated water is readily available.
Ice cream Softserve or a more common term I-Tim (ไอศครีม ซอฟเสริฟ or ไอติม in Thai) are the terms used in Thailand.
It emerged from bankruptcy on July 26, 2010, after restructuring to eliminate $14.2 million in annual interest payments and reduce total debt from $176.3 million to $40 million.
It prevents the bottle from resonating as easily, decreasing the likelihood of shattering during transportation.
This method for iced coffee appeared in numerous culinary works, but the term café viennois or café liégeois was not yet used.
See also Matki Mashk References External links Video of handthrowing kulhars Video of kulhars in use
In some municipalities milk bags are required to be discarded as garbage and in others they are recyclable.
One traditional remedy is to spread the grain in thin layers on a floor, where it is turned to aerate it thoroughly.
It was also assumed that, since kulhars are manufactured by small operations, this would assist in boosting rural employment.
Unopened oils can have a storage life of up to one year, but some types have a shorter shelf-life even when unopened (such as sesame and flaxseed).
Products stored The products stored in qullqas varied from region to region in the Inca Empire depending upon production in the local area.
Italian winemakers have had a long history of using Slavonian oak from the Quercus robur which is known for its tight grain, low aromatics and medium level tannins.
Cavendish Farms has potato processing plants in New Annan, Prince Edward Island, Lethbridge, Alberta, and Jamestown, North Dakota, and an appetizer plant in Wheatley, Ontario.
As a fibre, spliced into bell rope tops to help prevent wear on the ropes as they pass through the ceiling.
Stouffer's is known for such popular fare as lasagna, macaroni and cheese, meatloaf, ravioli, fettuccine Alfredo, and salisbury steak.
An icebox (also called a cold closet) is a compact, non-mechanical refrigerator which was a common early-twentieth-century kitchen appliance before the development of safely powered refrigeration devices.
Use of stereospecific catalysts can lead to heterotactic PLA which has been found to show crystallinity.
Aunt Bessie's frozen roast potatoes were introduced in 1999 and were one of a number of products including chips and croquettes that had been manufactured under licence by Heinz at their factory in Norfolk until the contract for the deal ended in 2015.
A particularly popular thermal mass refrigerator was conceived by Michael Reynolds and detailed in his 1993 book Earthship Volume 3.
The addition of salt lowered the melting point of ice, drawing heat from the cream and allowing it to freeze.
The most prized milk bottles are embossed or pyro-glazed (painted) with the names of dairies on them, which were used for home delivery of milk so that the milk bottles could find their way back to their respective dairies.
To introduce bagels to an unfamiliar public, the Lender family would prepare and distribute them in supermarket aisles.
Construction Traditionally, bota bags were lined with goat bladders, in other cases tree sap or other resins were used to prevent liquids from seeping through.
The Lord of Odate Castle, Nishiie Satake, encouraged this craft, which has been passed on from the end of the Edo period to the present.
Wine preservation While it has reportedly lost its ethanol content, analysis is consistent with at least part of the liquid having been wine.
It can also be produced in sheet form, widely used for the production of stationery folders, ring binder covers, packaging, and storage boxes.
Food frozen at −18 °C (0 °F) or below may be preserved almost indefinitely, although its quality is likely to deteriorate over time.
But unlike most things tripped up by zoning regulations, Little Free Libraries have an impressive record of besting the rules imposed on them.
() was an American company that designed, manufactured and sold the Juicero Press, a fruit and vegetable juicer.
A single piece of material is used for the top and bottom with a "living hinge" that is integral to the material, rather than added separately.
Partially hydrogenated vegetable oils are high in trans fats and are shown to adversely affect cardiovascular health.
29% of the UK population – which works out to 19.2 million people – belong to households that bring in below a minimum figure.
Café liégeois is a French dessert made of sweetened iced coffee or coffee ice cream topped with whipped cream (crème Chantilly).
Because of its lower density (high branching), it breaks down more easily than other plastics; as this happens, the surface area increases.
Requirements Stability and stackability Most packaging for the transport of pizzas is made of cardboard, as this is both cheap, easy to work with and lightweight while maintaining adequate structural integrity to hold and deliver pizzas.
In 2021, the Singapore Food Tech Event showcased how bento of the future might look like for a sustainable food system.
Adaptations Although some California coolers have been preserved, often they remain with vents to outside blocked off and are used as general storage.
The original Kilner bottlemakers operated from 1842, when the company was first founded, until 1937, when the company went into liquidation.
Purchasing Cooperative for Nonprofits Leket's purchase cooperative for nonprofits provides savings up to 25% off of nonprofit organizations' food budgets.
Specifically, plastics as polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) are considered safe and are regularly used in the food industry as a layer in direct contact with food.
WidgetCo manufactures and distributes metal, plastic, cork, rubber and wood products to businesses and individuals worldwide.
His patent expired in 1975 and has been directly cited in the mechanisms used by companies such as Crown Cork & Seal Co., BHP, and United States Steel Corporation.
However, there are instances where the terrain dips enough from one side to another to allow for 3/4 to full-size windows, with the actual floor remaining below grade.
It is used to help maintain the temperature of its contents, keeping cold items cold, and hot items hot.
Totino's is a brand of frozen pizza products owned by General Mills, best known for their pizza rolls.
Botijas sometimes also held almonds, capers, honey, medicinals, lard, hazelnuts, and syrup, with one botija of salt pork reported in the early 17th century in St.
In Iran, faloodeh is sold in ice cream stores and coffee shops in flavors such as pistachio, saffron, rose water, and honey, and can be served alongside bastani sonnati, a traditional Persian ice cream.
In modern houses, butler's pantries are usually located in transitional spaces between kitchens and dining rooms and are used as staging areas for serving meals.
Ball Corporation brands The Ball Corporation, which once dominated the market as the largest domestic manufacturer of home canning jars, spun off its home-canning business in 1993.
It consists of thin vermicelli-sized noodles made from starch in a semi-frozen syrup containing sugar and rose water.
In 2014, the company purchased a 68-acre farm in Douglasville, Georgia, where they intend to grow ingredients needed for their pops such as, according to Creative Loafing, "mint, basil, lemongrass, ginger, berries and melons".
The fiasco is no longer commonly used in Italy for storing and selling wine, and its more common uses nowadays are as a souvenir for tourists or as a decorative item in restaurants and kitchens.
Rather than being cylindrical, the hadra hydria's vertical handle was ribbed and its side handles were gently curved.
Angels' share "Angels' share" is a term for the portion (share) of a wine or distilled spirit's volume that is lost to evaporation during aging in oak barrels.
Air is not pumped into the mix, nor is it added as an "ingredient" but gets into the frozen state by the agitation of liquid similar to whisking a meringue.
A 1997 study performed by the University of Illinois, 2007 study performed by University of California – Davis and a 2003 Austrian study support that canned or frozen produce has no substantial nutritional difference not attributable to the presence of added salt, syrup or other flavouring.
After such a feast of Lucullus, it will behove me to take the waters at Karlsbad!" Novelist Susie Boyt, eating Nesselrode pudding for the first time in 2016, reported that "it tasted of Christmas, without any of the disappointment".
It includes two types of cheese: Parmigiano Reggiano, an Italian cheese product that adds nut like flavor, and Sake kasu, a paste-like byproduct of sake production that adds a subtle fermented flavor.
Given that there were approximately 20 million households in the US at that time, as much as 10% of homes had Hoosier cabinets made by Hoosier Manufacturing, and an additional unknown quantity had Hoosier cabinets made by competing companies.
Exceptional Mavrodafni vintages are released every 20 or 30 years: they are of minimal availability and expensive.
The company advertised nationally, and claimed its product was designed by women from all over the nation.
Examples Popular culture The 2000 film The 6th Day, features an Internet refrigerator which informs Arnold Schwarzenegger that the milk is over its expiring date and asks him to confirm a new order.
The product features boneless chicken thigh fillet, designed to meet consumer demand for convenience and high quality.
Trawling Starting with a small fleet of four fishing vessels in the 1930s, Ross diversified into trawling from 1934.
and opened his stand - The Original Banana Rolla Rama - right across the street from Phillips' original shop.
Huckabucks are typically sold for a dime or quarter, and generally alongside other snacks like chips and candy as a common after-school snack for schoolchildren.
An additional innovation developed specifically for food cans uses a tab that is bent slightly upwards, creating a larger surface area for easier finger access.
The exact date is still in doubt, but the preponderance of available evidence suggests the event took place sometime between 1914 and 1918, after whaling ended and before the intensification of the North American fur trade.
This capability would involve connecting the refrigerator to an online retail store, ensuring a consistently stocked refrigerator at home for domestic use.
It is neither feasible nor economical to install and manage monitoring groundwater wells in a place like Prince Edward Island, which consists of 260 watersheds for efficient water management." By 2016, yields for P.E.I.
It can also be found in other countries, such as Poland, but is rarely seen in China and other Asian countries with high numbers of ethnic Chinese.
The procedure then takes a weighted average of the number of kernels assigned to each level to obtain a standardized measure of mechanical damage.
Decades ago, the delicacy was served only in high-end hotels, but today it is commonly served in many Western restaurants and even in some cha chaan teng.
It was served at a White House state dinner hosted by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and President Kennedy for the Sudanese president Ibrahim Abboud, and by Queen Elizabeth for Laura and President Bush.
The main, or base, part is sugared sweet coconut milk-based ice in pink syrup, served with pacar cina merah delima (red tapioca pearls), avocado, cassava tapai, ketan hitam (black glutinous rice) tapai, jackfruit, diced bread and condensed milk.
This project is a joint venture between the Federal Government (FG) of Nigeria and the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT).
See also Kilner jar Screw cap Sterilization (microbiology) Weck jar References External links Preserving Tradition Fowlers Vacola Company Website
An alternative method of production was to cast tin onto an ingot of recently-cast, congealing, lead.
Gallery Competing standards Professional kitchen equipment from America are often not built according to Gastronorm, but rather to national non-metric size standards.
Benefits and concerns Compared to cork, screw caps reduce the wine faults of oxidation and of cork taint, although it is possible to find TCA contamination in a screw cap bottle.
19th century usages In the 19th century, the phrase has been found associated with the California gold rush of the 1840s where men were lowered by hand in baskets down mining shafts to set explosives which could have deadly consequences.
Food stored under unsuitable conditions should not be purchased or used because of the risk of spoilage.
Instructions for the dinners stated they were to be heated in the microwave for 2 minutes, rotated, heated for another 1–2 minutes, then given an additional 2–3 minutes to cool off before serving, making for 5–7 minutes of preparation.
Per Indian regulations, ice cream which is made from milk solids, but contains non-dairy fat is categorized and labelled as frozen dessert.
Italian ice can be used as a stand-alone refreshment, dessert, or as a palate restorer in a multi-course meal.
Analysis of polyphenols in the wine identified quercetin, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, apigenin, vanillin, isoquercetin, naringin, and rutin, confirming the liquid's identification as wine.
Pepperidge Farm Incorporated is an American commercial bakery founded in 1937 by Margaret Rudkin, who named the brand after her family's 123-acre farm property in Fairfield, Connecticut, which had been named for the pepperidge tree.
Flexible PVC can consist of over 85% plasticizer by mass, however unplasticized PVC (UPVC) should not contain any.
This means that they can receive a food bank parcel of three days’ nutritionally balanced, non-perishable food from their local food bank.
BiB packaging can be made using form fill seal (FFS) technology, where the bags are manufactured on-line from reels of film, then the FlexTap is inserted then filled on an integral rotary head filler.
Rubber hoses or gaskets have a high affinity for TCA and therefore concentrate TCA from the atmosphere; wine or water that subsequently passes through infected hoses can become tainted with TCA.
Analysis of variance on the profiles of the sample jars found that minor variation of constructional features was random.
Mort financed experiments by Eugene Dominic Nicolle, a French born engineer who had arrived in Sydney in 1853 and registered his first ice-making patent in 1861.
To heat the contents of the can, the user pushes on the bottom of the can to break the barrier separating the chemical from the water.
At the portals, soil nail and shotcrete walls are typically used for permanent support and are constructed from the top down in lifts.
In 2008, $20 million was invested to integrate Wine Ark storages units in National Storage storage centers.
Through this organization, the methods of preparing hams, bacon, sausages, pâtés, and terrines were preserved.
In 2014, the Juicy Juice brand and business was sold by Nestlé to Harvest Hill Beverage Company, a portfolio company of Brynwood Partners.
In 1296, Marco Polo reportedly heard of the Chinese invention and is credited with introducing sorbet-style desserts to Italy; but it is not mentioned in his writings.
The aluminum can is also considered the most valuable recyclable material in an average recycling bin.
Faloodeh is an Arabicized form of paloodeh that appeared after the Arab conquest of Iran, due to a lack of the phoneme /p/ in Standard Arabic.
In response, Freezer Queen first requested a new USDA inspector, then suggested that parts of the facility were debris-strewn and not normally cleaned, and finally elected to shut down the facility rather than fix the unsafe and unsanitary conditions.
Because more milk fits on each truck, shipping costs can be reduced by half; this reduces the number of trucks on the road each year by 11000 (US estimate).
Modern earthenware may be biscuit (or "bisque") fired to temperatures between 1,000 and 1,150 °C (1,830 and 2,100 °F) and glost-fired (or "glaze-fired") to between 950 and 1,050 °C (1,740 and 1,920 °F).
In 2007, Iron Gate organized the largest private order wine tasting in Toronto and in 2011 put on the first ever wine auction in Ontario.
Many packaging products can be compostable, but care is needed to match the needs of regional composting facilities.
The first digit is the last digit of the Year (e.g., 0 could be equal to 2010 or 2020, 1 could be equal to 2001 or 2011, and 9 could be equal to 2009 or 2019).
Semi-generic designations were once quite common in countries such as Australia and the US, but the wine authorities in areas such as Champagne have not been afraid to bring lawsuits against the use of their names outside their region, and semi-generic names are falling out of use.
The advent of pull tabs in beverage cans spread to the canning of various food products, such as pet food or nuts (and non-food products such as motor oil and tennis balls).
Traditional water containers About 50 billion single-use plastic water bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) are produced in the United States each year, and most are discarded.
There has been increased regulatory interest in substantiating these claims, and in some jurisdictions, food labels require regulatory approval before use.
Which followed two men on a mission to change Britain's food habits by rescuing the fresh food that supermarkets used to bin and getting it to the people who need it.
Home canning (or bottling) uses glass jars, such as Kilner jars or Mason jars, and boiling the containers to sterilize the contents.
A feature of large country houses and sporting lodges in Britain and parts of northern Europe from the 18th century, game larders continue to be used by shooting estates.
Lindhome had previously appeared in the season five episode "The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita", playing the Island Lady, and Micucci had previously appeared in the season two episode "Heat Signature", playing Wendy, one of Marceline's ghost friends.
Gastronorm (GN), sometimes spelled Gastro-Norm, is a European standard for kitchenware tray and container sizes that is commonly seen worldwide in the catering and professional food industry, as well as in certain parts of the high-end consumer market.
In fishing fly tying, metallized Mylar strips are sometimes wound around the hook shank for reflective striping or shimmer in certain patterns.
Some studio potters follow the reverse practice, with a low-temperature biscuit firing and a high-temperature glost firing.
Both the OPM Vocabulary and the PROV Ontology make extensive use of metadata models such as Dublin Core and Semantic Web technologies such as the Web Ontology Language (OWL).
These insects briefly continue to consume oxygen, but as oxygen levels in the bags drop, and CO2 concentrations rise, the insects stop feeding and quickly die, thereby protecting the crop from further damage.
In Australia, due to the difference in how wine is taxed compared to other alcoholic beverages, boxed wine is often the least expensive form of drinkable alcohol.
It is considered rich in both taste and texture, with the cheese contributing a fruit-like complexity to the flavor, offering subtle sweet and tangy notes that balance the richness, adding depth to the overall flavor profile.
The unpatented plant-based meat substitutes are made from legumes, grains, natural flavourings, and spices, and do not contain any genetically modified ingredients.
2,4,6-Trichloroanisole (TCA) The role of TCA in tainting the foodstuffs is known since at least 1970s.
Bellisio brands include Michelina's, Michelina's Lean Gourmet, Michelina's Budget Gourmet, Fusion Culinary, Arden Kitchens, Chariton and Howlin' Coyote.
In the 1960s and 70s, as production in Nigeria shifted from agriculture to oil, the groundnut pyramids disappeared.
On the Parthenon Frieze, none of the maidens (who may be identified by their long hair) are depicted carrying the kanoun and all of them wear the festival mantle.
A disadvantage of the closure is the relatively high cost of each plug (70 cents each) and cost either of manual bottling, or else obtaining compatible bottling equipment.
However, this first harvest almost always produces poor quality or virgin cork (Portuguese cortiça virgem; Spanish corcho bornizo or corcho virgen).
To detect the anti-yeast activity of beeswax wraps two strains of Saccharomyces cerevsiae were incubated in a liquid phase with the beeswax wrap.
For this reason, the straw cover had to be reduced, leaving the bottle bare from the "shoulder" up—an arrangement that persists to this day.
The interiors of the chain's earlier restaurants are decorated with antiques circa 1900, providing a theme that is reminiscent of Victorian England as well as early United States.
It continues to invest in the use of state-of-the-art technology and integrated, fully automated manufacturing processes to ensure consistent product quality as well as compliance with international HACCP standards for food safety.
Tu, "Mormon canneries preserve the spirit of self-reliance", Seattle Times, 2008-11-08 External links Bishop's Storehouses : Mormon wiki
In December, McCain's Australian subsidiary acquired Kitchens of Sara Lee, including the rights to Sara Lee brand for the Pacific Rim market.
Clarence Birdseye test-marketed herring fish fingers, a product he had discovered in the United States, under the name "herring savouries".
Work began on the statue in the spring of 1978, with a target for completion to coincide with the opening of Blue Earth's section of Interstate 90 on September 23, 1978.
The business operates 95 pushcarts and two customized ice cream trucks, and has retail branches in Athens, Georgia, Charleston, South Carolina, Greenville, South Carolina, Richmond, Virginia, Nashville, Tennessee, and Charlotte, North Carolina, among other places.
Children are raised by families that have the difficult task of explaining to that there will be nothing for dinner that night.
Christensen of the United States owning the largest collection of beer cans with 75,000 from 125 countries and Allan Green, of the United States also, with the largest collection of wine cans, at 449.
During the Paris World's Fair in 1867, the chef of the Grand Hôtel decided to create a "scientific dessert" by using Benjamin Thompson's discovery of the low thermal conductivity of egg whites.
It also became the largest shareholder of vertical-farming business TruLeaf, following an initial investment in 2018.
The aging process does not occur in the keg when the wine is blanketed with a gas such as nitrogen or argon to pressurize the keg.
When health conscious modern Koreans began to revisit packed lunches, they begain using the fancy divided Japanese style bento boxes to keep the meal's ingredients perfectly arranged and separate.
Through Little Free Libraries, present in 115 countries, millions of books are exchanged each year, with the aim of increasing access to books for readers of all ages and backgrounds.
HDPE is preferred by the pyrotechnics trade for mortars over steel or PVC tubes, being more durable and safer: HDPE tends to rip or tear in a malfunction instead of shattering and becoming shrapnel like the other materials.
See also Bento – Japan Brown bag Dosirak – Korea Tiffin carrier – India and Pakistan References External links Media related to Lunch boxes at Wikimedia Commons History of Lunchboxes Archived April 30, 2013, at the Wayback Machine, Retrieved June 4, 2013.
The results, compared with data from eight years before, showed a sharp reduction in TCA levels, of around 81 percent.
Over Memorial Day weekend of 1934, Tom Carvel, the founder of the Carvel brand and franchise, suffered a flat tire in his ice cream truck in Hartsdale, New York.
To ensure traceability of the product, a lot number, generally the date and time of bottling, may also be printed on the bottle.
Solar refrigerators are also used in cottages and camps as an alternative to absorption refrigerators, as they can be safely left running year-round.
History Founding and original locations The first Uno's was established in 1943 by former University of Texas football star Ike Sewell and his friend, former World War II G.I.
New classes for wines There are two classes for wines with official status in all 13 Anbaugebiete and one regional class in Rheinhessen and the Rheingau, respectively.
The design of these sachets had been called 'evil' by Hanneke Faber, Unilever's President for Global Food and Refreshments, 'because you cannot recycle it'.
Sandwich for School Kids Project Sandwich for School Kids Project provides 7,800 volunteer prepared sandwiches daily to disadvantaged school children in over 100 schools throughout Israel.
The ride-on cooler can transport food and drinks short distances and can be used in a small backyard, a neighborhood, or at large outdoor parties.
The bottle has been dated between 325 and 350 AD and is the oldest known unopened bottle of wine in the world.
While working as a butcher in a market, he discovered that it is unknown whether most fresh-meat sources were halal or not, leading to Ramly's decision to produce a halal-certified meat source for all Muslim consumers in Malaysia.
Flexible packaging Biaxially oriented PET (BOPET) film can be aluminized by evaporating a thin film of metal onto it to reduce its permeability, and to make it reflective and opaque (MPET).
It can also save money on water and energy used by dishwashers and can eliminate the need to replace reusables that are broken, damaged, stolen or accidentally discarded.
Italian ice is derived from Italian granita and is in many ways similar to sorbet and snow cones, but differs from American-style sherbet in that it does not contain dairy or egg ingredients.
It had the function of making the bottle less likely to topple over—a bottle designed with a flat bottom only needs a small imperfection to make it unstable—the dimple historically allowed for a larger margin of error.
One etymology of the term codswallop originates from beer sold in Codd bottles, though this is generally dismissed as a folk etymology.
Margaret Connors McQuade, in her chapter on the "Talavera Poblana: Four Centuries of a Mexican Ceramic Tradition" in Talavera Poblana: Four Centuries of a Mexican Ceramic Tradition, states that it is unclear exactly how the Talavera pottery style made its way over to Mexico.
It established two facilities in California, USA to produce Japanese noodles, cookies and cultured milk drinks.
Pierce Company (now Seneca Foods) and its canned fruits business was acquired by California Canners and Growers (Cal Can).
is an American corporation that sells convenience food brands, including Rao's Homemade items, Michael Angelo's frozen entrees, Noosa Yoghurt, and Birch Benders products (cake, waffle, and pancake mixes as well as syrups).
For iron-rich bodies earthenware, firing at comparatively low temperature in an oxidising atmosphere results in a red colour, whilst higher temperatures with a reducing atmosphere results in darker colours, including black.
A home-use opener named the "Bull's head opener" was designed in 1865 and was supplied with cans of pickled beef named "Bully beef".
Disparities in wealth spread during this period after an export boom during World War I and subsequent crop failures in the Tōhoku region.
In 2006, Iron Gate acquired wine storage competitor Urban Cellars Inc and launched the "bag-a-cork" initiative in cooperation with the Girl Guides of Canada.
In each of these, the main interest is in the social and human effects of the evils released from the box and in only one of them does Pandora figure as a character.
The preservation of the wine is attributed to the large amount of thick olive oil added to the bottle to seal the wine off from air, along with a hot wax seal.
This facilitates rolling a well-built wooden barrel on its side and allows the roller to change directions with little friction, compared to a cylinder.
The coats of arms of Colombia, Panama, Peru, Venezuela, Victoria, Australia and Kharkiv, Ukraine, also feature the cornucopia, symbolizing prosperity.
While used to store actual cookies or biscuits, they are sometimes employed to store other edible items like candy or dog treats, or non-edible items like currency (in the manner of a piggy bank).
In 2018, with the help of more than 47,000 volunteers, Leket Israel: (a) rescued, sourced, and distributed a total of 37,100,000 lbs.
The tradition is said to date from the 7th century in its basic form, the more modern form containing bread and eggs (symbols of resurrection and Christ) are said to date from the 12th century.
Artistic freedom allows basket makers a wide choice of colors, materials, sizes, patterns, and details.
Corporate divisions The company, as a subsidiary of CJ CheilJedang, has the following major business units: Schwan's Consumer Brands markets frozen food products in grocery stores primarily in the Western Hemisphere.
The Combined Nomenclature of the European Union describes it as being made of selected clays sometimes mixed with feldspars and varying amounts of other minerals, and white or light-coloured (i.e., slightly greyish, cream, or ivory).
It contains over 1000 objects made of: porcelain, gold, silver, glass, wood, bone, quartz and mother-of-pearl.
Fresh fruits and vegetables are sometimes packed in plastic packaging and cups for premium fresh markets, or placed in large plastic tubs for sauce and soup processors.
In American English, a pitcher is a container with a handle and a spout, used for storing and pouring liquids.
Concrete is much stronger in compression than tension, so the silo is reinforced with steel hoops encircling the tower and compressing the staves into a tight ring.
In countries such as Canada, laminate flooring is an exception: It is typically separated from the concrete by only a thin foam underlay.
In the royal household the "Marshal of the Buttery" was often a post discharged under the feudal land tenure of grand serjeanty.
2011: Weight Watchers Smart Ones introduces Satisfying Selections, larger portioned frozen meals sold in bags which were later discontinued in 2014.
As of 2023 it has expanded to include more than 40 products —including schnitzels, sausage rolls, chicken-style nuggets, stir-fry strips, pea protein mince, plant-based popcorn (chick'n style), polony and more—which are made without any meat, egg, or dairy ingredients.
Gorton's of Gloucester is a subsidiary of Japanese seafood conglomerate Nissui, producing fishsticks and other frozen seafood for the retail market in the United States.
Gair concluded that cutting and creasing paperboard in one operation would have advantages; the first automatically made carton, now referred to as "semi-flexible packaging", was created.
The company started out selling table eggs, then in 1925, Perdue built the company's first hatchery, and switched to selling layer chicks to farmers instead of eggs.
Overview Strawberry cakes may be prepared with strawberries in the batter, with strawberries atop them, with strawberries or a strawberry filling in between the layers of a layer cake, and in any combination thereof.
Franchising Ike Sewell first licensed the name and concept of the restaurant to the Uno Restaurant Holdings Corporation in 1978 in the Boston area.
In 1901 in the United States, the American Can Company was founded, at the time producing 90% of the tin cans in the United States.
Foodberry now operates as a food‑tech company offering edible and compostable coating and packaging technology, often in partnership with other food brands.
For the frosting, Whipped cream can be used or an icing which is made by mixing egg whites and powdered sugar.
Simplot purchased Birds Eye and many of Australia's leading food brands from Pacific Dunlop's Pacific Brands in the mid-1990s.
Patent Classification B65D43/162 covers “Non-removable lids or covers hinged for upward or downward movement the container, the lid and the hinge being made of one piece".
The packaging won the National Restaurant Association Food and Beverage Product Innovations Award in 2011.
In 2020 the brand became part of the stable of plant-based food brands under LIVEKINDLY Collective - opening up its export market potential.
Edible food packaging Several manufacturers are developing or producing food packaging that is edible.
The feed wheel teeth have a somewhat finer pitch than those of earlier designs and reside at the bottom of a V-shaped groove, which surrounds the rim on three sides at the point of action.
Bear bagging An alternative is bear bagging, also called bear hanging or bear hangs, wherein items attractive to a bear such as food, toiletries, or other scented items are placed in a bag and then raised into the air with a rope — out of its reach.
They may be branded wines that were originally sold at a higher price and re-labelled as cleanskins, or they may be wines produced for the purpose of being sold as cleanskins.
"Olive Jar Ceramics from the Eagle Ridge Site (25sy116) in Eastern Nebraska: Booty from the Villasur Expedition?".
Guilds developed training programs for their members, thereby preserving their knowledge and skills.
In 2007, 7-Eleven sold Slurpees branded as Squishees, a parody of Slurpees from The Simpsons television show which features a 7-Eleven parody brand called Kwik-E-Mart; the temporary defictionalization was to cross-promote with The Simpsons Movie.
They were often made of fine decorative wood like mahogany, rosewood, or walnut and could be of various shapes and sizes.
Global production and consumption of single-use plastic has continued to rise for the past 50 years.
In 2013, the couple took part in the Food Works programme by Bord Bia, Enterprise Ireland and Teasgasc.
Commentators suggest that aside from Arctic Roll's low price, many consumers buy the dessert out of feelings of nostalgia.
History Released to coincide with Bugs Bunny's 50th birthday, the meals came packaged in blue boxes that featured a Looney Tunes character on the front, and were often marketed as coming with small prizes, including comic books, trading cards, and stickers.
Plombir is a type of ice cream made with vanilla, cream, eggs and sugar, originally created in the Soviet Union in 1937.
The foam is a good thermal insulator, making the container easy to carry as well as keeping the food at the temperature it had when filled into the container, whether hot or cold.
The designer of a die for a blow moulded bottle can never be completely sure of how much the finished bottle will hold.
Another common method of browning the meringue is to torch the dessert, sometimes even setting it on fire for presentational purposes.
Machine-made Mason jars that originated around 1909 have a sealing surface on a bead ledge below the threads.
According to P Segal, it is "one of the few dishes served at Proust's interminable dinner parties in Remembrance to merit an exclamation of approval from a guest", with that approval being: "Ah, what's this now?
The caps have a long outside skirt, intended to resemble the traditional wine capsule ("foil"), and use plastic PVDC (polyvinylidene chloride) as a neutral liner on the inside wadding.
Many campers prefer a ‘just add boiling water’ method of cooking, while others enjoy a more involved, and therefore often higher quality meal.
In 1810, Frenchman Philippe de Girard came to London and used British merchant Peter Durand as an agent to patent his own idea for a process for making tin cans.
The difference in strength exceeds the difference in density, giving HDPE a higher specific strength.
Most backsheets consist of a layer of BOPET laminated to a fluoropolymer or a layer of UV stabilized BOPET.
Sour cream mousse is also prepared by adding a little white wine or rum, mixing it with whipped cream or sour cream, and cooling.
On June 14, 2024, Tupperware announced that it would close its last remaining US manufacturing plant in Hemingway, South Carolina, and shift production to their plant in Lerma in Mexico, with the closure to be completed in January 2025.
In 1922, frozen fruit salad entered popular awareness in the Philippines after "Frozen Pampanga Fruit Salad" was described in Culinary Arts of the Tropics, a publication assembled by the wives of American colonial officials.
Polyethylene bladders of 1 imperial gallon (4.55 litres) were put into corrugated boxes for sale to consumers.
Provenance studies may shed light on the books themselves, providing evidence of the role particular titles have played in social, intellectual and literary history.
50 AD, Roman Emperor Nero demanded that slaves collect ice from the Apennine Mountains to produce the first sorbet mixed with honey and wine.
foodsharing.de is an online platform that saves and distributes surplus food in Germany and Austria.
Gallery Philippines La Trinidad, Benguet Strawberry Festival On 20 March 2004, at the Strawberry Festival in the La Trinidad, Benguet municipality of the Philippines, the world's largest strawberry shortcake was prepared and confirmed by Guinness World Records.
The business flourished until Don Callender died on January 7, 2009, due to complications resulting from head trauma sustained during a fall at home.
Such "retained ring-pull" cans supplanted pull-off tabs in the United Kingdom in 1989 for soft drinks and 1990 for alcoholic drinks.
In 1980, Chef America introduced its first stuffed sandwich, the Tastywich, the predecessor of the Hot Pocket.
Augustine's Frozen Pizza can be found in Grocery and convenience stores throughout western Pennsylvania and eastern Ohio.
It is the modern successor to several older alphabetized rations— the A-ration, B-ration, and T-ration—combining them under a single unified system.
The table would be boxed in packaging resembling a pizza box, and the building instructions included a suggestion to order a Swedish meatball pizza from Pizza Hut, which would contain the same meatballs served in IKEA restaurants.
See also Fast Sunday Humanitarian Services LDS Philanthropies Tithe barn Lehi Ward Tithing Barn-Centennial Hall Notes References LDS Church (2004).
History and archaeology One function of the souterrains of Gaul and early medieval Ireland is to hide in boltholes to escape detection by raiders.
Symptoms Microbial spoilage Depending on oxygen availability, meat spoilage by micro-organisms can manifest itself as follows: Notes References Lawrie, R.
An advantage that frozen vegetables have over canned is that many brands contain little or no added salt because the freezing process by itself is able to stop bacterial growth.
The name is a portmanteau for "square round" (cartons), referring to a compromise between a square and a round carton.
References External links US Government Food Safety Guidelines USDA Resources for Food Safety and Storage Food Storage: Refrigerator and Freezer Food Storage Guidelines For Consumers
In 1936, Carvel opened his first store on the original broken down truck site and developed a secret soft-serve ice cream formula as well as patented super low temperature ice cream machines.
Its texture is creamy, and it is generally prepared artisanally in various flavors, although some businesses do produce queso helado industrially.
An investigation found that the source of the contamination was a contractor's truck that had delivered ice cream pre-mix to Schwan's.
Nalgene products became popular replacements among backpackers for storing consumables; the light, wide-mouthed high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and polycarbonate bottles were more secure than plastic bags and were used for both liquids and solid foods.
While the products were manufactured in Los Angeles, Vinotemp opened an office in Irvine, California, in 2011, to allow for an administrative expansion of accounting as well as design and marketing.
Emma Revie of the Trussell Trust said, “What’s really concerning us is the steepness of the increase – 23% compared with the same period last year is such a step up.
The idea is that by having a large number of users generate tasting notes for other users to read, this helps guide the user in choosing the right wine to drink, buy etc.
A bombe glacée, or simply a bombe, is a French ice cream dessert frozen in a spherical mould so as to resemble a cannonball, hence the name ice cream bomb.
Distribution and regional presence While Caohu in Dali District is considered the place of origin, taro ice is now widely available across Taiwan.
Their size also varies considerably; most, at up to 25 centimetres (9.8 in) tall, could be comfortably held and poured with one hand, but there are much larger examples.
The popularity of canned drinks was slow to catch on, as the metallic taste was difficult to overcome with the interior liner not perfected, especially with more acidic sodas.
Near the end of the 1920s, the McDougall front door was changed to be similar to those used by other Hoosier cabinets.
However, unavoidable natural flaws, channels, and cracks in the bark make the cork itself highly inconsistent.
Similar granaries in Europe Similar granaries were common throughout Atlantic Europe: Northwest Iberian Peninsula, France, the British Isles, Scandinavia.
Jars are commonly in either pint or quart capacities, with two opening diameters, known as "standard" and "wide mouth".
Cookie jars are utilitarian or decorative ceramic or glass jars often found in American and Canadian kitchens.
On February 24, 1951, Laramy filed an application with the United States Patent Office for a portable ice chest (Serial No.
The 2004 film The Stepford Wives, features a smart refrigerator that can tell whenever it has no juice, etc.
As the artistic qualities of food presentation have become important, the chef must be able to produce foods that both taste good and look good.
There are also cost advantages resulting from lower shipping costs for the retailer and these can be passed on to the consumer.
Type II with a higher concentration of Chromium reflects outcroppings of high-Chromium rock in the plain.
Many vaccines are delicate biological substances that can lose part or all of their effectiveness if they are frozen, allowed to get too hot, or exposed to bright light.
All of these approaches can extend a food's shelf life, often without unacceptably changing its taste or texture.
Popular examples included frozen ginger ale and pear salads, frozen tomato salads, and frozen cheese salads.
Kart's was then owned by Meriah Saujana and in June 2010, Kart Food Industries became a 45%-associate of FFM SMI Sdn Bhd, a wholly owned subsidiary of FFM Berhad.
China Meat in China moved from a minor specialty commodity to a major factor in the food supply in the late 20th century thanks to the rapid emergence of a middle class with upscale tastes and plenty of money.
It was made in the style of Talavera poblana developed out of the tradition in Talavera, Spain, and was also influenced by Chinese ceramic traditions.
This is characterized by discoloration of the insides of the tuber, which can range from brown to black instead of the usual orange.
The Stelvin was developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s by a French company Le Bouchage Mécanique at the behest of Peter Wall, the then Production Director of the Australian Yalumba winery.
"In developed countries, plug-safely, but in developing countries, where electricity supplies can be unreliable, alternative refrigeration technologies are required".
Pinnacle Foods was then acquired by Conagra Brands in June 2018, with Birds Eye becoming part of its brand portfolio.
It used the brand name "Le Sueur Z" for canned vegetables starting in 1903; "Le Sueur" by itself was first used in 1933.
Its laboratory pedigree is still suggested by the markings, in hundreds of millilitres, of the volume contained.
Amongst their most popular pop flavors are Chocolate Sea Salt, Raspberry Lime, Cookies n' Cream, Banana Puddin', Orange Basil and Strawberry Lemonade.
Parents would send their children to school with a lunch in these simple, aluminum boxes without dividers, and the food contained would invariably become jumbled together as the student travelled to school.
In 1995, the US FDA issued a rule prohibiting lead soldered food cans, including both domestic and imported food cans.
It may be protected by the use of various polymer stabilizers, including UV-absorbing additives and anti-oxidants such as phosphites (e.g.
This container will then be put in the grizzly bear enclosure at The Grizzly & Wolf Discovery Center in West Yellowstone Montana.
Despite their size, they were tender, and had a special flavor and sweetness that couldn't be matched.
The word sharbat was itself borrowed into Persian from the Arabic verb shariba, which means "to drink".
The watermelon bombe is three layered with green-tinted ice cream on the outside, with a thin layer of white ice cream and a red inside layer with chocolate chips.
Advocates of such labelling claim that the consumer should make the choice whether to expose themselves to any possible health risk from consuming such foods.
Aside from sales to individuals, Lender sold his bagels to other bakeries, as well as to delicatessens and restaurants.
Slogans Pastikan Ramly Baru Beli See also Fast food Franchising Hamburger Islamic dietary laws List of frozen food brands References External links Official website
Even in the case of more complex multilayer materials like aluminum or paperboard multilayer packaging (as Tetra Brik Aseptic), the inner layer is made by plastic to guarantee the food contact compliancy and the sealability of the material.
Keeping in mind how the prospect of seeing the Green Giant fired the imaginations of the children who passed through Blue Earth with their parents each summer, in 1977 Hedberg contacted Thomas H.
Smith's Pies plant in Pottstown, Pennsylvania, served as a landmark and significant employer for the better part of the twentieth century.
Some twenty-five thousand Chipwiches were sold the first day, and within two weeks the company was selling 40,000 a day.
acquired Yogen Früz, founded in 1986 by brothers Michael Serruya and Aaron Serruya, along with the CoolBrands franchise division which included the Swensen's ice cream restaurant chain.
The shape of the hydria was altered in the 5th century BC from having a wide body and broadly rounded shoulders, to a design that incorporated flatter shoulders that met the body at an angle.
Bark from initial harvests can be used to make flooring, shoes, insulation and other industrial products.
The lists below use the 2020 menu for the UGR-H&S, 2023 menu for the UGR-A, 2014 menu for the UGR-M, and 2021 menu for the UGR-E.
Tradition has it that George, Duke of Clarence, the brother of Edward IV of England, was drowned in a butt of malmsey on 18 February 1478.
Products The Italian Findus range includes 4 Salti in Padella (literally "four jumps in a pan", Italian for "stir frying"), a microwavable or easy cooking version of classic Italian dishes, such as amatriciana and tagliatelle al ragù.
The phrase appears as part of the lyrics to country singer Doug Seegers' 2014 song Going Down to the River.
Nomacorc closures are co-extruded to manage the oxygen transfer rate for wine, reducing 2,4,6-trichloroanisole (TCA), more commonly known as cork taint.
The clay used to manufacture a kvevri must be carefully chosen, as its characteristics will influence the wine's mineral content.
Great estates, such as the Biltmore Estate in Asheville, North Carolina or Stan Hywet Hall in Akron, Ohio, had many pantries and other domestic "offices", echoing their British "great house" counterparts.
As such, the project's focus has also evolved to address the need for providing safe, cheap, and effective post-harvest storage solutions to smallholders.
The conventional tea chest is a case with riveted metal edges, of approximate size 500 by 500 by 750 millimetres (20 by 20 by 30 in).
Despite the Great Recession, the company has sustained a 50% growth in trade year-on-year since its foundation, resulting in the creation of its European sales office in Clitheroe nestling in the Ribble Valley and the twofold expansion of its sales and marketing team.
In 1827 the commercial ice cutter was invented, increasing the ease and efficiency of harvesting natural ice.
Some vintners have used the so-called half and half mix of milk and cream to remove TCA from wine (the TCA in the wine is sequestered by the butterfat in half and half).
A 1945 graduate of Long Beach Poly High School, he joined the Merchant Marine for a brief tour at the end of World War II and then returned home to southern California.
In all, there are 21 meals available – seven breakfasts and 14 meals suitable as noon or evening meals.
state of Hawaii, many domestically filled beverages use a distinctive "206 diameter" 12 US fl oz can with a longer neck and four reinforcing ridges below the lip, a legacy format produced locally by Ball Corporation's Kapolei plant.
With the 2007 sale of former Conagra division Swift & Company to JBS USA, the popular frozen breakfast sausage line formerly known as "Swift Premium Brown & Serve" was briefly rebranded under the Armour name, then to "Banquet Brown & Serve" by the end of 2009.
BiB also offers environmental benefits by allowing contents of 1.5–1,000 litres (0.4–264.2 US gal), so that less packaging or labeling is required.
Companies have become more aware of their environmental impact and have allocated more resources to sustainability.
Ho introduced Swanson chicken broth to the Hong Kong market following a visit to a Campbell's factory in the United States, in which he saw excess chicken soup created during the production of TV dinners going to waste due to a lack of demand for chicken broth in the US.
This design, like Cudzik's, uses a separate tab attached to the upper surface as a lever to depress a scored part of the lid, which folds underneath the top of the can and out of the way of the resulting opening, thus reducing injuries and roadside litter caused by removable tabs.
See also Mason jar Weck jar Fowler's Vacola jar Food preservation Home canning Screw cap Sterilisation References External links Official website The Kilner Glass Companies by the Society for Historical Archaeology
For example, lid feeding alone starts with manual debagging onto a simple v-chute connected to the seamer up to fully automated processes with automatic debagging and lid feeding of lids combined with automatic roll depalletizers for filling debaggers by robots.
The dessert can be elevated by adding a base (of cake, nuts or fruit) and a core (of nougat, jelly or pudding).
This includes a requirement to be below 480 mg of sodium in addition to fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol targets.
1942 WW2 eliminated Rubbermaid's housewares business, but the company was able to convert to military manufacturing.
The size of the barrel plays a large role in determining the effects of oak on the wine by dictating the ratio of surface area to volume of wine with smaller containers having a larger impact.
Most large country houses in Britain had a game larder, and numerous examples built between the early 18th and early 20th centuries survive.
Augustine show that turpentine, almonds, capers, honey, medicinals, lard, hazelnuts, syrup, and salt pork were stored in olive jars.
The food is placed in its compartments as the trays pass under numerous filling machines; to ensure that every packaged dinner gets an equal amount of food, the filling devices are strictly regulated.
With less than 33 percent, the ice cream will not melt as quickly but the taste will be negatively affected.
To make handling possible, microscopic inert inorganic particles, such as silicon dioxide, are usually embedded in the PET to roughen the surface of the film.
It evolved from 19th-century recipes and was first named Café liégeois in the Larousse Gastronomique (1938).
A general body formulation for contemporary earthenware is 25% kaolin, 25% ball clay, 35% quartz and 15% feldspar.
Polypropylene, highly colorfast, is widely used in manufacturing carpets, rugs and mats to be used at home.
According to Milton, a 24-bottle plastic crate went into production for Dairy Farmers around the end of 1964 and, with only minor changes over the following two decades, became the standard milk bottle crate throughout Australia, including a distinctive maroon version used by Dairy Farmers.
See also Food portal Milk bottle Milk carton Plastic milk container Square milk jug References External links Canadian Milk Bags Demystified on YouTube—a woman demonstrates the nature of the packaging and how it is readied for use
In 2013, the company faced criticism after it was revealed that they included a clause in their Terms of Service penalizing customers for negative reviews.
Finger steaks are strips of steak (usually top sirloin), battered with a tempura-like or flour batter, and deep-fried in oil.
Lawsuits The packaging was the subject of a patent lawsuit brought by David Wawrzynski, a Detroit businessperson who claimed to have shown a similar prototype to Heinz executives in 2008.
Contamination can also occur at the slaughterhouse through the use of improperly cleaned slaughter or dressing implements, such as powered knives, on which bacteria persist.
Perhaps the most energetic entrepreneur was Gustavus Franklin Swift, the Yankee who operated out of Boston and moved to Chicago in 1875, specializing in long distance refrigerated meat shipments to eastern cities.
It featured in the 2004 Museum of Modern Art New York exhibition Humble Masterpieces and in the 2011 London Science Museum/Vitra Design Museum exhibition Hidden Heroes – The Genius of Everyday Things.
In 2017, 3.8 million tons of aluminum were generated in the US of which 0.62 million tons were recycled - a recycling rate of 16%.
Porous pouch Some packets are made of materials with known porosity to allow vapors from the pouch to escape.
As the parent company, MHP shares its best practices in production and business operations with its subsidiaries.
Coconut sorbets are shaved ice and a combination of coconut water, coconut milk, coconut cream, coconut flakes and muscovado.
September 2015 the company built the largest paper cup in the world, although constructed on a wooden frame, it was paper on the outside, the paper was supplied by James Cropper, who not only recycle paper cups back into paper, but have also had their paper used in the construction of paper cups.
The developer has been involved with converting buildings in Milwaukee for use as apartments Background The Milwaukee Cold Storage Co.
According to an article on the website E notes, in 1986, only six years after the product's introduction, juice boxes accounted for 20% of the United States juice market, as more and more companies were introducing their own lines of juice boxes.
Letters of patent issued to Mason on May 10, 1870, for improvements to his fruit-canning jar was determined to be invalid as a result of a patent infringement case brought before the Southern District of New York on June 11, 1874.
In November 2015, Findus in all markets excluding the UK was sold to Nomad Foods, former Nomad Holding, which had already purchased Iglo Group, former Birds Eye, in June that year.
Modern depictions In modern depictions, the cornucopia is typically a hollow, horn-shaped wicker basket filled with various kinds of festive fruit and vegetables.
Murray Lender publicized the sale in characteristic form, by holding "the marriage of the century", with Murray and Marvin escorting a 6-foot-tall (1.8 m) Lender’s Bagel, "Len", down the aisle to meet his new bride, "Phyl", a Kraft Philadelphia brand cream cheese.
It warned that the colorful balls are a danger to children afflicted with asthma, and can cause severe skin and internal organ damages, burns, breathing difficulty, and life-threatening injuries.
They are generally shipped in shipping containers, so modern tea chests are commonly dimensioned to fit in standard shipping containers.
In many countries, early food laws focused on preventing adulteration and fraud, often by mandating clear product names and ingredient listings.
Volunteers (so-called 'foodsavers') need to sign a legal agreement that renders the businesses not liable and obliges the foodsavers to pass on the food for free, along with information as to its food-saved nature.
In 1917, the company had plants in 27 cities, including a couple of plants around Boston, New York, operating under the names Fox Bakery and Ferguson Baking Company; Deininger and Rochester Baking Companies in Rochester, New York; and Collins and Brunner Baking Companies in Buffalo, New York.
History In 1940, Harold Morton began making a chicken and noodle dish sold in glass jars in Louisville, Kentucky.
Bottles of high-end Rioja wine may have a covering of gold wire netting, Spaniard Camilo Hurtado de Amézaga, Marqués de Riscal founded a winery in Rioja, in 1858, naming it after his own noble title, which had been created in 1708 by Philip V.
Frozen yogurt is a frozen product containing the same basic ingredients as ice cream, but contains live bacterial cultures.
A more recent method of assessing heat damage has been created for wheat by Wang, Dowell, and Chung using near-infrared spectroscopy.
However, producers soon started re-using the baskets from discarded certified fiaschi to dress new sub-standard bottles.
History Beginnings Lender's Bagel Bakery was established by Harry Lender, a Jewish baker originally from Chelm, Poland.
Materials Cartons can be made from many materials: paperboard, duplex, white kraft, recycled and many more various plastics, or a composite.
European Union A few countries of the European Union sell milk in bags, as well as in the other types of containers, such as in Estonia (e.g.
By 2023, açaí exports from Brazil had risen over 16,000% over the prior decade, largely driven by aggressive marketing and increased consumption of açaí bowls.
Since its discovery, it has been exhibited at the Wine Museum section of the Historical Museum of the Palatinate in Speyer, always displayed in the same location within the museum.
Hell in a Handbasket is the title of a 2006 book (ISBN 1585424587) by American cartoonist Tom Tomorrow, who authors the cartoon strip This Modern World.
Acetone also softens the surface of PLA, making it sticky without dissolving it, for welding to another PLA surface.
History In 1892, operatic soprano Nellie Melba was performing in Wagner's opera Lohengrin at Covent Garden.
In the case of roto-molded coolers, the heated liquid plastic is applied over a thick layer of insulation.
These were large stone buildings with roofs thatched with "ichu" grass, or what is known as Peruvian feathergrass (Jarava ichu).
Due to a series of financial difficulties, which began with the loss of its Weight Watchers/Smart Ones frozen food licence in 2004, CoolBrands sold Chipwich, Eskimo Pie and Real Fruit to the Dreyer's division of Nestlé in 2007.
In the mid-1960s it had 65 vessels, the second largest fleet in England, after Associated Fisheries.
These cardboard boxes are positioned inside the IMP package on the outer sides, sandwiching the other contents, so the IMP itself looks like it is entirely contained within a cardboard box inside the outer foil-lined paper bag.
Findus products include ready meals, peas and Crispy Pancakes, the latter of which were invented in the early 1970s.
Christmas hamper contents tend to reflect contemporary notions of luxury, and include a combination of popular food items as well as high-status products considered at the time to be decadent or celebratory.
The aim is to provide reliable input data for monitoring progress towards the targets set for FLW reduction.
The dish is also known as an omelette à la norvégienne, or "Norwegian omelette", which similarly refers to the cold climate of Norway.
Meat preparation was done in a larder as game would come in undressed, fish unfilleted, and meat in half or quarter carcasses.
History Eggo waffles were invented in 1953 by the American inventor Frank Dorsa, who developed a process by which waffles could be cooked, frozen, and packaged for consumers.
Its owners would include the Continental Baking Company, Del Monte (which itself was a division of R.J.
Shape Although quite often shaped like a cuboid, it is not uncommon to find cartons lacking right angles and straight edges, as in squrounds used for ice cream.
Hot water is forced under pressure through the K-Cup pod, passing through the grounds and through the filter.
The weight of a pouch is less than regular cans or bottles, and the energy required to produce each pouch is less than competing packaging from metals, paper, and glass.
Praeger’s products are Kosher and free of dairy, trans-fat, preservatives, artificial flavors, colors, and MSG.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Media related to Bottles at Wikimedia Commons
When St Remigius died the ancient art of perfumery was still known and practiced in the collapsing Roman Empire, but was unknown in the Carolingian empire four hundred years later.
The USDA inspection found such violations as live cockroaches in the gravy tank on multiple occasions.
The Pepperidge Farm logo is based on the Grist Mill in Sudbury, Massachusetts, which supplied the company with 48 tons of whole wheat flour monthly from 1952 to 1967.
Punnets are used for collecting berries as well as for selling them, thus reducing handling of the fragile fruits and the likely damage that it could cause.
Of all the stellar pantheon worshiped by Incas, Qullqa was the "mother", the senior over all heavenly patrons of earthly things.
The concept of the Bank is to acquire perishable and nonperishable food from large food brands, while keeping manufacturing companies from converting the food into animal food or letting it go to waste.
While the main focus of Tafel is to assert if someone is in need, foodsharing.de is interested only in saving food, without focusing on the financial circumstances of the recipient.
Magewappa (曲げわっぱ; literally "bent woodware") is a traditional Japanese steam bending woodcraft found in Odate, Akita Prefecture, Japan.
The sole exception is in producing sparkling wine, where thicker-walled bottles should be used to handle the excess pressure.
In 2012, the company launched "Tree Elves", a business in which they and their employees delivered potted Christmas trees to customers dressed as elves, and then after the holidays they pick them up and take it to their Farm King of Crops for compost.
The social status of guests could be measured by their positions relative to the master's large salt cellar: high-ranking guests sat above the salt while those of lesser importance sat below the salt.
Curry became a food that could be stored for long periods of time and like instant noodles, could be eaten after being cooked for three minutes.
Solera process In the solera process, a succession of containers are filled with the product over a series of equal aging intervals (usually a year).
Collins, former manager of Collins Baking Company, were the company's vice-president and president, respectively, while Lewis J.
Analysis of mineral salts in the wine revealed a high concentration of potassium salts, indicative of the cremains in the wine, and of silicon, sodium, and aluminium, probably due to two millennia of contact with the glass urn.
Tyson responded by saying it would introduce a remote video auditing system to monitor treatment of chickens in its supply chain and hire off-site auditors.
Since the 19th century, American industrial workers have used sturdy containers to hold hardy lunches, consisting of foods such as hard-boiled eggs, vegetables, meat, coffee, and pie.
Manufacturers chose a box shape because they foresaw this shape as being the most convenient and easily handled.
A later (2006) but more widely publicized study found similar amounts of antimony in water in PET bottles.
On foodsharing.de individuals, retailers and producers can offer or collect food that would otherwise be thrown away.
The higher the fat level, the more air the yogurt can absorb; and the more air goes into the mix as it freezes, the creamier the product will taste.
However to prevent leakage through the holes required a long piece of cork and likewise a long skirt, neither of which were effective or cheap.
These issues first became a major concern regarding works that had changed hands in Nazi-controlled areas in Europe before and during World War II.
Corks could dry out and shrink, causing leaks, while other stoppers were difficult to clean and could affect the taste.
Otherwise she must be identified by her dress: while serving her office, the kanephoros wore a distinctive full-length mantle.
Agriculture and gardening specialists are teaching it, and olla use is making a comeback in New Mexico and the American West.
This removes any oxygen from the headspace, which is useful as latent oxygen can ruin the quality of the product via oxidation.
Uses Takiding was traditionally used to carry goods while visiting homes, going to the tamu (local traditional market) and to the paddy field.
Sustainable forest management maintains biodiversity and ecosystems and provides a habitat for wildlife, recreational areas and jobs.
Recipes for sorbetti saw publication in the 1694 Italian edition of Antonio Latini's Lo Scalco alla Moderna (The Modern Steward).
Mouth-blown (or hand-blown) jars embossed with a version of "Mason's Patent November 28th 1858" were made about 1857 to 1908 and often had a ground lip as well.
Carême himself wrote in 1828 that his friend Mony derived the idea from a pudding recipe Carême had already published in an earlier edition of one of his cookbooks.
About 100 mealworms could consume between 34 milligrams (0.52 gr) and 39 milligrams (0.60 gr) of this white foam in a day.
A hogshead was also used for the measurement of herring fished for sardines in Blacks Harbour, New Brunswick and Cornwall.
The City of Albany declared a state of emergency on July 29, 2022 after chunks of the building's concrete wall began to fall near the train tracks below.
The ingredients in Italian ice are mixed, then whipped during the freezing process similar to the process for making ice cream.
was founded in 2012, and is a registered charity and Institution of a Public Character (IPC) in Singapore.
In the Indian city of Mumbai and the Pakistani city of Karachi, there is a complex and efficient delivery system that regularly delivers hot lunches packed in dabbas to city office workers from their suburban homes or from a caterer.
See also Impact of the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic on the meat industry in the United States References External links Official website
This broad valley, some 60 kilometres (37 mi) long contains about 65,000 hectares (160,000 acres) of cultivatable lands ranging in elevation from 3,200 metres (10,500 ft) to 4,250 metres (13,940 ft), the highest elevation at which cultivation was possible in this area.
There are a number of reasons why painting provenance is important, which mostly also apply to other types of fine art.
See also Home canning Sterilization (microbiology) Other canning jar types/brands: Fowler's Vacola Kilner jar Mason jar Le Parfait References External links Official website (DE)
In the United States, manufactured wartime goods made of cotton, cotton meal, and cottonseed oil were no longer being used in quantity by the military.
It bought out the Sanitary Can Company of New York in 1908, and the three-piece design displaced all other cans by the early 1920s.
This allows end users to replace the reservoir completely rather than sending an entire water cooler back for servicing.
Systemic TCA Systemic TCA tainting occurs when TCA has infiltrated a winery via means other than cork and can affect the entire production of wine instead of just a few bottles.
Term is derived from a defunct soft-serve maple product with a higher fat content than other producers and remains popular among Vermonters.
Usage within food packaging Ice cream squround containers The term applies mostly to ice cream packaging design, where the switch to a squround from paperboard bricks, cylindrical half-gallons and other containers is motivated by consumer preference, as well as cost effectiveness.
According to the National Association for PET Container Resources, the recycling rate for PET has held steady at 31% since 2013.
The company relaunched in the UK in mid-2011, and recruited UK staff, but in December the relaunch was canceled.
Rails or beams were used to support deer on hooks, with roof-suspended racks, sometimes on pulleys, for small game.
The three-act satirical verse comedy is set in the home of Epimetheus and the six children recently created by Prometheus.
History Blue raspberry flavoring debuted commercially in the United States in 1958 with snow cone syrup.
Cast The voice actors for the season include: Jeremy Shada (Finn the Human), John DiMaggio (Jake the Dog), Tom Kenny (The Ice King), Hynden Walch (Princess Bubblegum), and Olivia Olson (Marceline the Vampire Queen).
Canadian wineries have been experimenting with the use of Canadian oak, which proponents describe as a middle ground between American and French oak even though it is the same species as American oak.
The company started small and later began experimenting with the preservation of ox, beef, and pork tongues.
Modern tea chests (2023) are made of plywood with metal corners and lined with aluminium foil and parchment paper to provide aroma-proof packaging.
Although undigested if eaten, an alginate capsule will gradually decompose as the calcium diffuses out of the gel matrix in the reverse of the reaction above.
The more typical Gallic production begins within the ceramic ateliers in Marseille during late Augustan times.
Es doger is an Indonesian coconut milk-based shaved ice beverage with pinkish color often served as a dessert.
These modular wine racks were used in Season 1, Episode 11, in the basement of homeowners Jeff and Anita.
Baked Alaska, also known as Bombe Alaska, omelette norvégienne, omelette surprise, or omelette sibérienne depending on the country, is a dessert consisting of ice cream and cake topped with browned meringue.
The food restrictions during and after WWII expanded the consumption of fish fingers, but companies struggled to maintain decent quality.
A "Krusty Korn Dog" baker machine appeared in the 1926 Albert Pick-Barth wholesale catalog of hotel and restaurant supplies.
At room temperature it is not reactive, except to strong oxidizers; some solvents cause it to swell.
Nutrition and marketing techniques Kid Cuisine is what its own marketing agency in the 1990s and 2000s described as a "kid-driven request item", that is, children would ask their parents to buy these items.
In addition, the brand changed its mascots, ran an ad campaign aimed directly at children, which included games where children could sign up and win prizes.
A small adjustable nozzle at the top, controlled by a handle at the base of the silo directs the silage to fall into the silo on the near, middle, or far side, to facilitate evenly layered loading.
Another way to warm the meal when a stove is unavailable is by putting it in the pocket of a coat during winter.
Partially destroyed fogous exist at Chysauster, which is in the care of English Heritage and which has been blocked up for safety; at Boden Vean near Manaccan and at Lower Boscaswell close to Pendeen.
Kulhars were claimed to take up to a decade to degrade, however the discovery of thousands of years old shards from Indus Valley ruins was used as evidence to challenge that assertion and that they are environmentally superior.
The production of these three-piece cans by the American Can Company stopped for World War II due to lack of material, after the war the first two-piece cans with no side seams and a cone top were introduced.
History As queso helado is milk-based, its origins can be traced to the Spanish conquest of Peru, when the Europeans introduced cattle to the Andes.
See also Food packaging Plastic recycling Packaging waste Modified atmosphere packaging Food preservation References External links "Multilayer packaging: Innovative and sustainable".
The garden project featured numerous projects, including a Chicken Club, which teaches how to look after poultry.
When grain goes through the drying process, temperature and moisture gradients in the grain which can cause stress cracks both on the interior and exterior of the kernels.
In cylindrical formats, the most common dimensions are: Agglomerated wine corks This type of cork is entirely produced from cork granules derived from by-products of solid cork production.
References External links Hiway 16 Magazine about the invention of the egg carton at the Wayback Machine (archive index) Canada Patent Page
A wide variety of toppings exist, but the most common ones include sugar water, condensed milk, adzuki beans, mung beans, and tapioca balls.
It is the phellem layer of bark tissue which is harvested for commercial use primarily from Quercus suber (the cork oak), which is native to southwest Europe and northwest Africa.
These continuous screw-thread jars were designed with a bead between the screw threads and the shoulder as a sealing surface.
Some people injure themselves trying to open security packaging which in the United Kingdom has been cited as the most frustrating to open.
In Australia and the United States a wine label must also mention that it has sulfites in certain circumstances.
Pliofilm was more stable in a range of humidities than earlier cellulose-based wraps and became popular as a food wrap.
Lewis, alternating sponsorship with the Bendix Home Appliance division of Avco, and then Johnson's Wax.
Description A choc ice is a generic frozen dessert generally consisting of a rectangular block of ice cream—typically vanilla flavour—which is thinly coated with chocolate.
Bento generally consists of rice and a number of other food items, transported within a lunchbox that has compartments to keep each item separate from each other.
Faloodeh (Persian: فالوده, romanized: fālūde, IPA: [fɒːluːd̪e]), or paloodeh (Persian: پالوده, romanized: pālūde, IPA: [pʰɒːluːd̪e]), is a traditional Iranian cold dessert similar to a sorbet.
Stouffer's is a brand of frozen prepared foods sold in the United States, currently produced by Nestlé Meals, a division of Nestlé USA Stouffer's products were also sold in Canada by Nestlé Canada until 2023.
Later, in 1915 John Van Wormer of Toledo, Ohio, received the a patent for the gable-topped, wax-coated, "paper bottle," a folded blank box for holding milk, calling it the "Pure-Pak." The milk carton could be folded, glued, filled with milk, and sealed at a dairy farm.
Cultural references In the Fox television series Arrested Development, set in Orange County, the Bluth Company owns and runs a frozen banana stand.
Propuesta de límites micológicos aceptables Cork production corkfacts.com Instituto de Promoción del Corcho, Extremadura iprocor.org (in Spanish) Analysis of the life cycle of Cork, Aluminium and Plastic Wine Closures Henley, Paul, BBC.com (18 September 2008).
Evidence of possible former fogous can be found at Porthmeor; at Higher Bodinar; at Castallack and at Treveneague.
Mango baobing is typically only available in the summer, while strawberry baobing is available in the winter.
Refuge hypothesis Currently, both documentary and subsequent archaeological evidence support their use as refuges, possibly to survive raids, as first suggested by Kenneth MacGregor (2004).
History The increased popularity of bento can be traced back to the 12th century during the Kamakura period, when meals of cooked and dried rice called hoshi-ii (糒 or 干し飯, literally "dried meal") were developed to be carried to work.
It also produces sheds, step stools, closets and shelving, laundry baskets, bins, air fresheners and other household items.
These casks are usually made from the staves of ex-Bourbon or Tennessee whiskey casks, which are plentiful due to US law requiring a new barrel for each batch of whiskey.
The moulds are removed from the freezer 10–15 minutes before serving to allow the kulfi to melt slightly.
When the user pushes on the bottom of the can, a rod pierces the membrane, allowing the water and heating agent to mix.
Secondly, in instances where surplus food is not suitable for direct consumption, FOI engages in strategic food production in regions with established agricultural expertise.
The Witt Library houses a collection of cuttings from auction catalogs which enables the researcher to identify occasions when a picture has been sold.
However, the approach remained fragmented for several years, with studies often focusing on case studies that were challenging to scale up or generalize.
The bottle then enters a "filler" which fills the bottle with beer and may also inject a small amount of inert gas (usually carbon dioxide or nitrogen) on top of the beer to disperse the oxygen, as oxygen can ruin the quality of the product via oxidation.
Food bank For a Fed Latvia is a charity program in Latvia, which grew as one of the solutions of the 2008 financial crisis in Latvia in 2009.
It is standard for Cantonese cuisine in Hong Kong and many parts of China and sometimes used overseas in various restaurants, particularly in the United States and Canada.
Because of the high risk of illness or death associated with improper canning techniques, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) considers it critical that consumers who intend to can at home obtain proper and current information from a reliable source.
Single and multiple small items for sale are often packed in small zipper bags for convenience and visibility.
The meat is said to symbolize the attribute of strict justice, while the white dough represents kindness and divine compassion.
Many modern designers have completely removed the cabinets in renovations; however, some have replaced the exterior vents with windows to bring light into the area, or even occasionally provide an opening for a cat door.
Dishwashers Cutting boards: Gastronorm compatible cutting board are available, for example in the sizes 1/1 and 1/2.
For example, Yvette Dardenne in Belgium has amassed a collection of approximately 56,800 tin boxes over two decades.
In a fire, PVC can form hydrogen chloride fumes; the chlorine serves to scavenge free radicals, making PVC-coated wires fire retardant.
Another theory is that Botijas evolved out of the dolium, an ancient storage vessel, in the first half of the 16th century.
The jars typically have their brand name embossed on the side, though jars may also have a decorative design such as a quilting pattern or may be completely blank and smooth.
Some wine producers are exploring more alternative packagings such as plastic bottles and tetra packs.
The resulting product has no seals or imperfections and is much stronger and more durable than traditional coolers.
Boyd had patented a white milk-glass insert for the zinc screw lids to theoretically lessen the chances that food would be tainted by contact with the metal lid.
Alternative Portable Cooler Dispensers In the coil cooler, a stainless steel coil is covered with water and ice, in which the liquid is made to run through.
Also in 1946, Dave Barham opened the first location of Hot Dog on a Stick at Muscle Beach in Santa Monica, California.
The traditional kitchen icebox dates back to the days of ice harvesting, which was commonly used from the mid-19th century until the introduction of the refrigerator for home use in the 1930s.
18th–20th centuries A separate building for storing game during the maturation process improves ventilation, while reducing the odour problem.
In Arabic medieval sources, it was known as faloothaj (Arabic: فَالُوذَج, romanized: fālūḏaǧ), for example in Al-Muḥkam wa-al-muḥīt al-aʻẓam.
In 1989, environmentalists raised concerns that the multi-layered design of juice boxes made them difficult to recycle or reuse.
In the United States In the United States a lunchbox may also be termed a lunch pail, lunch bucket, or lunch tin, either as one or two words.
Traditional Eastern Christianity An Easter basket contains the foods traditionally forbidden to consume during Lent (meat, eggs, and dairy products) that is blessed by a priest for breaking the Lenten fast.
In the media In June 2012, Wine Cellar Innovations was featured on The Magnolia Network The Good, Better, Best Show which features home improvement transformations and room renovations.
Depending on the magnitude of the bottling endeavor, there are many different types of bottling machinery available.
The 2012 film Total Recall, features a smart refrigerator that is covered by a touchscreen which enables the user to leave notes and messages.
In most of North America, the cornucopia has come to be associated with Thanksgiving and the harvest.
started selling slices of Amanda's own deep-dish, fruit-filled pies door-to-door, and at the local YMCA lunch counter.
In agricultural use, a hamper is a wide-mouthed container of basketwork that may often be carried on the back during the harvesting of fruit or vegetables by hand by workers in the field.
The main advantages of plastic bottles over glass are their superior resistance to breakage, in both production and transportation, as well as their light weight and low cost of production.
Because of a lack of proper equipment, maintaining adequate temperature conditions is the largest hurdle that farmers in developing countries face.
It is typically a large vat or vessel, most often holding 252 wine gallons, but occasionally other sizes (e.g.
Design As a pizza saver typically consists of a flat surface supported by multiple vertical legs, it is commonly compared to tables, which usually take on a similar form.
Their aim is twofold: to increase Nigeria's groundnut production and rebuild the groundnut pyramids.
Storage mediums being used are ziploc bags, vacuum sealed bags, pastry boxes, and microwavable plastic containers.
Acquisitions On June 16, 2013, Bellisio purchased APC Foods, located in Austin, Minnesota, for $6.1 million.
Closure lining materials Foamed polyethylene Plastisol Plastisol is the standard lining material used in metal closures for vacuum packing glass bottles and jars.
Some of them are poorly preserved but there is a growing awareness from owners and authorities to maintain them in good condition.
This allowed Swisher (a money-losing sanitation company) to inherit CoolBrands's publicly listed status and balance sheet, which it used to embark on a 2011 corporate acquisition spree with many of the acquisitions paid for in company stock.
Remi was opened in the reign of Charles the Bald and while Hincmar was the Archbishop of Reims, two small vials were found, the contents of which gave off an aromatic scent the likes of which was like nothing known to those present.
These fridges are expensive and require heavy lead-acid batteries which tend to deteriorate, especially in hot climates, or are misused for other purposes.
A girl who acted as kanephoros would have advertised the central place of her family in Athenian society, and her own availability for a dynastic marriage.
Winslow, of Seattle, Washington, described paper milk containers that were commercially sold in San Francisco and Los Angeles as early as 1906.
In Britain in the 1970s and 1980s choc ices were often jokingly referred to as the cheaper working class alternative to buying more expensive ice creams from ice cream vans.
After the food was consumed, the empty cans were difficult to dispose of; the littered cans were sometimes fashioned into booby traps by the enemy.
Once in the eater's mouth, the cold of the liquid nitrogen combines with the warmth of the mouth to release visible vapors out of the nose and mouth.
At first called Jedinica Zajedničkog Ulaganja (Joint Venture Unit), it was renamed Frikom – Kompanija Smrznute Hrane (FRozen Food KOMpany).
The guidelines that Perdue follows, created by the National Chicken Council, have drawn criticism for allowing birds to be deprived of light, food, and water for long periods, and also for permitting animals to be hung upside-down by their ankles before slaughter.
The cutting wheel is coupled to a serrated feed wheel as in the Star design and rotated in the opposite direction by interlocking cogwheels reducing friction.
In the U.S., threshing and drying are performed in the field, and transport is nearly sterile and in large containers that effectively suppress pest access, eliminating the need for irradiation.
The dessert gained nationwide recognition during the late 1970s and 1980s, a period when Taiwan's local food culture experienced increased media exposure and domestic tourism.
Oyster pails that can be used safely in microwave ovens (without the metal handle, which can cause arcing) are available.
Gallery Images A video See also The Aluminum Association Aluminium recycling Beverage can Can collecting Oil can References Bibliography Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
Dantata came to Kano in the year 1919 and within five years was one of the most successful businessmen, supplying the Royal Niger Company (RNC) with most of their groundnuts.
Other forms Objects also called wine labels, but known too as decanter labels or bottle tickets, are also an area of interest to collectors.
In 1686, Francesco Procopio dei Coltelli, a Sicilian, brought his grandfather Francesco's gelato-making machine to Paris, opened Café Procope and introduced the dessert.
The meat-packing industry grew with the construction of railroads and methods of refrigeration for meat preservation.
They were a more common household kitchen item until bread started being made commercially with food preservatives and wrapped in plastic.
Besides being derived from different species, a major difference between American and French oak comes from the preparation of the wood.
Boxed wine, also known as cask wine, bag-in-box wine, or goon, is any wine that is sold in bag-in-box packaging.
Tee Yih Jia's "Spring Home" brand products are manufactured in Singapore as well as in several regional facilities.
In drying bins, heated air is pushed through the grain using fans, with attached heaters, located at the base of the bin.
The villages of Atsana in Guria; Makatubani, Shrosha, Tq'emlovana and Chkhiroula in Imereti; and Vardisubani in Kakheti are traditional kvevri-making areas.
Pit storage differs from in-ground storage in that tubers are collected and kept together and considerations are made to control the storage environment.
Associations The platform The Paper Bag consists of leading European paper manufacturers and producers of paper bags.
In 1991, Frank's son Jim Perdue was named Chairman, becoming the third generation of leaders from the Perdue family.
This made it possible to ship cattle and hog carcasses, which weighed only 40% as much as live animals; the entire national market, served by the railroads, was opened up, as well as transatlantic markets using refrigerated ships.
In 2021, the company built and scaled its manufacturing from a renovated seafood processing factory.
K&N's is a Pakistani multinational poultry and frozen food company founded in 1964, based in Karachi, Pakistan.
During the 1980s, Schwan's made further acquisitions, including pizza manufacturer Sabatasso Foods and Asian-foods manufacturer Minh Food Corporation.
According to the World Health Organization, at least 7% of temperature-sensitive medical products suffer significant degradation in potency in transit.
Popular culture In the 1990s, Bagel Bites ran a television commercial, most popular during children's programming, featuring the jingle: The lyrics were altered from The McGuire Sisters' 1957 single "Sugartime", written by Charlie "Sugartime" Phillips.
In 2011, K&N's became "one of the largest broiler-chick producers and the market leader for processed chicken products in Pakistan".
It increases the strength of the bottle, allowing it to hold the high pressure of sparkling wine/champagne.
Later, the meal offerings were expanded significantly and were no longer limited to one gram of fat.
Vents near the top and bottom allow outside air to circulate by the principle of natural convection.
Additionally, the team sells jerseys featuring "Worcester 6" on the back, with portion of the proceeds going to a memorial care fund.
Inefficiencies in FLW also affect food security, jeopardizing the ability of food supply chains to adequately feed the growing population, which is projected to reach nine billion.
The Bond Bread formula, established circa 1915, was based on the review of 43,040 contest participants who sent the company recipes and samples of their home made bread making.
In 1976, the Journal of the American Medical Association noted cases of children ingesting pull-tabs that had broken off and dropped into the can.
Products It is engaged in integrated poultry operations including breeding, hatching, feed milling, broiler growing, poultry processing and production of Halal ready-to-cook and fully cooked chicken products.
On February 7, 2019, Tyson Foods reached an agreement to acquire the European and Thai businesses of Brazilian food company BRF.
Most canisters are designed to resist clawing and biting from bears rather than loaded drops from trees or cliffs.
Reliable evidence proves that ice cream cones were served in the 19th century, and their popularity increased greatly during the St.
Depending on the end use, there are a number of options that can be used on the bag instead of the tap.
In June 2012, Charles Doux decided to restructure Doux in judicial recovery due to the lingering debt of €320 million.
See also Media related to Tartufo at Wikimedia Commons List of Italian desserts and pastries List of ice cream flavors == References ==
According to the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, a significant portion, 44%, of Indonesia's landfills is attributed to food waste.
Preparation and consumption The dessert is generally agreed to contain pureed chestnuts, mixed with cream or egg custard, flavoured with dried fruit, including currants, raisins and dried cherries, candied peel and brandy or other spirits.
In 1922, Abraham Stouffer and his wife Lena Mahala Bigelow decided to convert the stand into a lunch counter, serving buttermilk, sandwiches, and Lena Stouffer's homemade Dutch apple pie (credited by some as the reason for the almost instant success of the restaurant).
Another stated advantage is that preparation using retort pouches can be done using less heat, reducing the impact on the taste of the food.
The hydria (Greek: ὑδρία; pl.: hydriai) is a form of Greek pottery from between the late Geometric period (7th century BC) and the Hellenistic period (3rd century BC).
On August 1, after the city made emergency repairs to the crumbling wall, Amtrak resumed use of the track.
Separately, Jeno Paulucci developed a series of food businesses starting in the late 1940s, including the Chun King line of Chinese foods.
It is also important to maintain proper kitchen hygiene to reduce the risk of bacterial or viral growth and food poisoning.
It is one of the types of potong (cut) ice cream, so named because the servings are sliced from a large bar of ice cream.
Frozen food brands Amy's Kitchen Aunt Bessie's Banquet Foods Bellisio Foods Birds Eye Bubba Foods Dr.
From 2014 to 2017, the San Francisco-based firm received $120 million in startup venture capital from investors.
Strawberry cake is sometimes prepared using a prepared cake mix as a base, such as a white cake mix, upon which additional ingredients are added to the batter or atop the cake.
Light-bodied white wines run the greatest risk from light exposure, and for that reason, they are often packaged in tinted wine bottles that offer some protection from light.
The milk churn was also known as the milk kit in Northern England or a tankard in the Welsh Marches.
This includes milk, juices, egg whites, coffee, protein shakes, water, and even snacks like Goldfish and Whoppers.
In the United States, bento box preparation has gained widespread popularity on social media, particularly TikTok, where creators such as Sulhee Jessica Woo have attracted millions of followers by sharing elaborately themed bento box lunches.
Some breakfast varieties have also been released, like pancakes, sausages, berry toppings, tater tots, and fruit cups.
Sizes Standard egg cartons have room for 10 or 12 eggs, but they can come in a variety of sizes, holding from one to 30 eggs.
Global acceptance of the wine in a can category Since 2014 the wine in a can category has grown significantly in other regions as well, including Australia, New Zealand, the United States and United Kingdom.
The containers may also be used for storing or transporting non-food items, such as soap bath beads or small parts.
The mix enters a refrigerated tube and, as it freezes, blades scrape the product cream off the barrel walls.
Analysis of the urn's contents five years after its discovery demonstrated the contents to be the oldest surviving wine in the world.
The inside of the can is coated with an epoxy coating, in an attempt to prevent food or beverage from coming into contact with the metal.
By now, Doux was working closely with the Institute of Animal Breeding (Institut de sélection animale (ISA)) to retain the best chicken strains according to their physiological attributes.
Albion metal is used for decorative rather than load-bearing purposes, such as coffin adornments, toys, and costume jewellery, and for protecting foodstuffs and drinking water from contact with lead.
Ice cream may be served with other desserts—such as cake or pie—or used as an ingredient in cold dishes—like ice cream floats, sundaes, milkshakes, and ice cream cakes—or in baked items such as Baked Alaska.
These films are typically cut on a computer-controlled plotter (see vinyl cutter) or printed in a wide-format printer.
The usual English design is single storey, sometimes octagonal, and usually of brick or stone construction; ventilation is provided by louvred roof lanterns and louvred or mesh-covered unglazed windows.
External links Digital Version of "A Representation of the manufacturing of earthenware" — 1827 text on the manufacture of earthenware Short film on pottery making around the world Tin-glazed earthenware livery-button, ca 1651, Victoria & Albert museum jewellery collection
Modern lunch boxes Today, lunch boxes are generally made of plastic with foam insulation and an aluminium/vinyl interior.
Infected meat, however, should be eliminated through systematic meat inspection in production, and consequently, consumers will more often encounter meat exogenously spoiled by bacteria or fungi after the death of the animal.
While the most basic wine cave can cost over $100 per sq ft to construct, reduced energy costs result in a net savings over the long term.
Animal larders Places where animals store food for later consumption are sometimes referred to as 'larders', a well-known example being the hoards of seeds and nuts hidden by squirrels to provide a store of fresh food during the leaner months of the year.
A later, standard, and lighter churn might contain 11 imperial gallons (50 L), of milk, weighing about 120 pounds (54 kg) full.
Infection The organisms spoiling meat may infect the animal either while still alive ("endogenous disease") or may contaminate the meat after its slaughter ("exogenous disease").
The book had 31 recipes for ice creams, some with fresh fruit, others with jams, and some using fruit syrups.
Described as a "frozen food version of a Happy Meal", the product is marketed towards children, while assuring parents of nutritional benefits.
Freezer burn is a condition that occurs when frozen food has been damaged by dehydration and oxidation due to air reaching the food.
It was historically a method of cheating at baseball; the efficacy of the practice has been challenged.
Bento regained popularity in the 1980s with the help of the microwave oven and the proliferation of convenience stores.
The first containers were probably invented for storing food, allowing early humans to preserve more of their food for a longer time, to carry it more easily, and also to protect it from other animals.
In April 2015 Permira agreed on a majority sale to United States-based investment vehicle Nomad Foods, valuing the group at €2.6bn (£1.9bn).
The tunnels are usually excavated using a tunnel roadheader or a milling head attachment on an excavator.
For example: Japan: Kakigori Kakigori is a Japanese shaved ice that ranges from an ice with fruit syrup refresher until a well-refined topped dessert with condensed milk, azuki bean and dango mochi.
Etymology The word is largely confined to Commonwealth countries and is of uncertain origin, but is thought to be a diminutive of pun, a British dialect word for pound, from the days in which such containers were used as a unit of measurement.
Some find it humiliating to have to ask for food, and the packages they receive do not always seem nutritious.
While the focus of his guide was primarily on Bordeaux, it has been generally accepted and widely used in the wine market as an evaluation tool for all sorts of wine.
By the 1930s these products were widely used to feed the men and women who worked on the remote dams, bridges and roads of the Works Progress Administration.
Modern Modern grain farming operations often use manufactured steel granaries to store grain on site until it can be trucked to major storage facilities in anticipation of shipping.
Since then, Polar Ice Cream is distributed to China, New Zealand, Vietnam, Myanmar, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia, Singapore and Brunei.
In March 2006, the Spanish government outlawed the use of alternative wine closures in 11 of Spain's wine-producing regions as part of their (Denominación de Origen) D.O.
The burger patties have been banned in Singapore due to the meat coming from sources which are not on the list of Commercial Food Imports for Meats approved by the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority of Singapore, meaning it could pose a potential health risk.
Plastic caps are used for plastic bottles, functioning as screw caps, or plastic caps may have a pour spout rather than being detachable.
Over time, Vietnamese cooks further expanded these influences, producing a wide range of sweet, savoury, and dry preparations that contributed to bánh lọt’s popularity in southern Vietnamese cuisine.
When football matches were being played behind closed doors and the Premier League charged £14.95 to watch some matches on television, Fans Supporting Foodbanks encouraged supporters to boycott pay-per-view matches and donate the amount to foodbanks instead, raising over £100,000.
In Europe, buckets and casks dating to 200 BC have been found preserved in the mud of lake villages.
In 1987, Tee Yih Jia's "Spring Home" brand Indian Samosas won the SIFST (Singapore Institute of Food Science and Technology) Best Product Award.
The olla is used by the Kwaaymii people, among many others, for cooking, storing water, serving meals and even nursing infants.
Vietnam In Vietnam, an ice cream sandwich called bánh mì kẹp kem is commonly sold on the street as a snack.
The former warehouse and production facility at 975 Fuhrmann Boulevard in Buffalo was demolished in anticipation of the construction of Queen City Landing, a 23-story apartment tower.
The Australian açaí bowl is a thick, soft serve treat topped with fruit, granola, and sweet sauces, including Nutella or peanut butter.
The first Swanson-brand TV Dinner was produced in the United States and consisted of a Thanksgiving meal of turkey, cornbread stuffing, frozen peas and sweet potatoes packaged in a tray like those used at the time for airline food service.
In 2003, the company announced its move out of Wooster to Atlanta, Georgia; 850 manufacturing and warehouse jobs would be eliminated, and 409 office jobs would move to other locations.
Preparation Traditionally, to prepare queso helado, one uses a deep wooden vessel filled with ice and salt, in which a smaller, conical, stainless steel container is placed.
In 1953, Nephi, Golden, Otis, and Ross developed Tater Tots, bite-sized "logs" formed from seasoned slivers of potatoes, which were leftovers from French fry production.
PET microfibers generated by apparel wear, washing or machine drying can become airborne, and be dispersed into fields, where they are ingested by livestock or plants and end up in the human food supply.
For either type, the idea is that just 20–60 seconds of immersion in boiling water is necessary to reach a ready-to-eat state.
"Spanish Olive Jar and other shipping containers of sixteenth-century Florida: quantifying the documentary record".
History The origins of frozen desserts are obscure, although several accounts exist about their history.
The Tetra Brik is the best-known and most sold package in the Tetra Pak packaging family, to the extent that Tetra Brik is sometimes mistaken for the brand name.
Research indicates that the rotor speed has the largest effect on grain damage, with damage increasing exponentially with rotor speed.
Self-heating food packaging is active packaging with the ability to heat food contents without external heat sources or power, usually using an exothermic chemical reaction.
Impressed by the immensity of the Johann-Casimir-Fass, he wrote a poem in 1595 praising the barrel as an apparent proof of the superiority of Calvinism, entitled Vas Heidelbergense (Poem on the Great Wine Barrel in the Castle of Heidelberg).
The project is supported by the United Nations Development Programme in Ukraine within the framework of the Partnership for Sustainable Development project.
Soft serve is softer and is often served at amusement parks and fast-food restaurants in the United States.
When placed in the eater's mouth, it produces vapors which comes out of the nose and mouth, giving the dessert its name.
In Landsdowne, an açaí food truck known as Acai Underworld became known for its gang culture-affiliated branding and controversial owner, stimulating further mainstream interest for the Australian variety of açaí bowls, with the food truck eventually expanding into a store in St Marys.
The largest ice cream cone in the world was created in 2011 in Rimini, Emilia-Romagna, during the 32nd edition of the International Exhibition of Handcrafted Gelato, Pastry, and Bakery.
From 1892 to 1910 ice was taken from the Menomonee River to cool the building, but in 1910 the building was cooled with a new refrigeration system which used brine tanks, condensers and ammonia.
The smart refrigerator is able to communicate in friendly male voice and give a warning if the food items are expired, which bothers Gilfoyle enough to hack it.
Packets of sugar substitutes typically contain an amount of sweetener that provides an amount of sweetness comparable to a packet containing sugar.
While both frozen and chilled noodles offer convenience for the mass market, and for short preparation times, each have been found to cause loss of optimal texture when tested using alkaline and white salted noodles.
Milo Bybee claimed to have invented finger steaks while wondering what to do with leftover tenderloin scraps when he was working as a butcher for the U.S.
It is one of many pianos with a provenance that have extraordinary value because of art, sculpture or design incorporated into the cabinet.
In April 2024, after having acquired a minority stake in 2021, McCain bought Strong Roots, a plant-based frozen food company headquartered in Dublin, Ireland.
See also List of cakes List of strawberry dishes List of strawberry topics References Further reading Gill, J.T.
The invention of transfer printing processes made highly decorated wares cheap enough for far wider sections of the population in Europe.
Before inputting the standard nutritional data, the calculator requires a food category to be selected.
During World War II Heinz took a different approach, using a mechanism developed by Imperial Chemical Industries which involved igniting a smokeless fuel in the can.
The etymology of the word hydria was first noted when it was stamped on a hydria itself, its direct translation meaning 'jug'.
Le Bouchage Mécanique was later acquired by Pea-Pechiney, which became part of Alcan, then Rio Tinto Alcan and now Amcor.
The company went to the brands for which it canned and found that none of them wanted to sell the new peas.
Pressure-sensitive liners (PS 22) Styrene foam material coated on the down-facing side with torque-activated adhesive.
ISBN 978-1-55862-476-4 External links Ross Revenge Plans - Ross Company Timeline Original Mergers & Monopolies Commission Report on The Ross Group (1960–69 National Maritime Museum record of the flag of the Ross Group trawlers Young's Bluecrest Official Site
The company Fowlers Vacola specialises in bottling jams and other foods at its manufacturing plant in Sydney.
Unfortunately, BPA-free Tritan plastics were later found to leach other estrogenic chemicals in a cell-based assay.
Among the molds commonly infecting meat are Penicillium, Mucor, Cladosporium, Alternaria, Sporotrichium and Thamnidium.
By 1588, reference is documented in England to the "trencher salt"; by the early 18th century, these had mostly supplanted large salts.
Shortly after Howell's endorsement, Douglas Hoon, the company's CTO, co-founder, and an MIT-trained engineer, partnered with Roberts and other engineers and chemists to develop precision coffee brewing systems and flash-freezing.
Barokes founders, Greg Stokes and Steve Barics commenced five years of intensive R&D and by the early 2000s Barokes solved the problem of wine in a can and patented the product and a process for packaging wine in aluminium cans.
By September, the product was available in 100 stores across Ireland, which led to take up by the major national retailer SuperValu and other stores.
Some Kidfresh frozen meals are: Totally Twisted Pasta + Meatballs, Rainbow Rice + Chicken, Easy Cheesy Ravioli, Spaghetti Loops Bolognese, Muy Cheesy Quesadillas, and Wagon Wheels Mac + Cheese.
"French butter dish" became the preferred name in the US around that time, and was later adopted by potters in Europe.
His workaround of freezing coffee in ice trays inspired him, and he began experimenting with improving this method.
Goh Chok Tong, highlighted Tee Yih Jia (and its Executive chairman Sam Goi) as an example of Singapore enterprises with potential for development into International Singapore Companies (ISC), and how Singaporean can be enterprising during his 2001 National Day Rally speech as Prime Minister.
In June 2018, Nomad Foods agreed to buy the Aunt Bessie's business from William Jackson for £210 million.
LDPE has more branching (on about 2% of the carbon atoms) than HDPE, so its intermolecular forces (instantaneous-dipole induced-dipole attraction) are weaker, its tensile strength is lower, and its resilience is higher.
As of 2022, ethylene glycol is made from ethene found in natural gas, while terephthalic acid comes from p-xylene made from crude oil.
The enzymes are PETase and MHETase, which afford 2-hydroxyethyl terephthalic acid and then ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid.
Bread Run Twice a week, fresh bread and salads are rescued by volunteer "Bread Runners" from partner food stores such as Pret a Manger, Maxim's Cakes and Arome Bakery, that would typically be thrown away due to their short shelf life.
The patent was the subject of a legal dispute in 1857, when a failed attempt was made to use it to invalidate another later patent.
Salt pig A salt pig is a container used to hold salt, particularly in a kitchen, to make it easily accessible to pinch or spoon measure into dishes.
Juicero filed a complaint in federal court in April 2017 against iTaste, a Chinese company that made a competing cold-press juicing device, the Froothie Juisir, for allegedly infringing its patent, trade dress and trademark, as well as unfair competition and unjust enrichment.
Amphorae were used in vast numbers for the transport and storage of various products, both liquid and dry, but mostly for wine.
Oetker Ellio's Pizza Fiestada Freschetta Goodfella's Grandiosa Palermo's Pizza Pizza Pops Red Baron Richelieu Foods Tombstone Totino's Uno Chicago Grill See also List of brand name food products List of food companies References External links Media related to Frozen food at Wikimedia Commons
Cork production is generally considered sustainable because the cork tree is not cut down to obtain cork; only the bark is stripped to harvest the cork.
The organization relies on volunteer "stewards" to construct, install, and maintain book exchange boxes.
Originally a small family-owned fish merchanting company, Ross diversified into trawling, fish processing, and later into food processing in general, expanding into factory farming to become the largest chicken producer in Europe by 1962 via a series of takeovers.
Ahead of the 2019 general election, Fans Supporting Foodbanks co-founder Ian Byrne was selected as the Labour's candidate for Liverpool West Derby.
Built in stone, wood, or bricks, it is raised from the ground by pillars ending in flat staddle stones to prevent access by rodents, with ventilation allowed by the slits in its walls.
Pits can be reused, but they should first be cleaned and the soil turned over and disinfected with fire or sulphur to rid the area of microorganisms.
The storytelling and production quality by Wisconsin Public Television add depth and authenticity, making it enjoyable for viewers interested in collectibles and human-interest stories.
Freeze-dried ingredients that have not been combined into a meal are often hard to find and thus tend to be sought out by campers.
Preparation A thin batter of starch (from potatoes, arrowroot, maize, or rice) is cooked then pressed through a sieve, producing delicate strings similar to cellophane noodles that are then chilled in ice water.
In 2017, because of "limited availability of potatoes on the Island" the company imported 150 million pounds of potatoes in 2017 from New Brunswick, Manitoba, Alberta and Maine, according to Ron Clow, the General Manager of Cavendish Farms.
Chemistry The source of the heat for the self-heated can is an exothermic reaction that the user initiates by pressing on the bottom of the can.
The higher the socio-economic status of the purchaser, the more likely they are to buy milk in cartons rather than in bags, despite the higher price of cartons.
Many restaurant menus circa 1900 in the collection of the New York Public Library also list this variety of ice cream while at least one early-20th-century American cookbook contains a suggestion that tutti frutti ice cream was popular in the United States.
The word "cleanskin" comes from the Australian term for unbranded cattle, and is also used to refer to undercover law enforcement agents.
Atactic polystyrene The only commercially important form of polystyrene is atactic, in which the phenyl groups are randomly distributed on both sides of the polymer chain.
Durand did not pursue food canning, but, in 1812, sold his patent to two Englishmen, Bryan Donkin and John Hall, who refined the process and product, and set up the world's first commercial canning factory on Southwark Park Road, London.
A container can also be considered as a basic tool, consisting of any device creating a partially or fully enclosed space that can be used to contain, store, and transport objects or materials.
These are often made of high-density polyethylene (HDPE) which is intended for a single use and is easily recyclable.
Legal conflicts In 1991, the Federal Trade Commission issued a complaint that Stouffer Foods had misrepresented sodium content in their Lean Cuisine entrees by stating that they were low in sodium.
One important development in the 20th century was the introduction of soft ice cream, which has more air mixed in, thereby reducing costs.
Smaller quantities of food were stored in baskets made from woven grasses or leaves and such designs have remained in use to the present day.
See also Other types of earthenware or other examples include: Terracotta Redware Victorian majolica Lusterware, which uses iridescent glazes Raku Ironstone china, on the border of earthenware and stoneware Yellowware List of classifications of pottery References Further reading Rado, P.
History in Europe and United States Late Middle Ages In a late medieval hall, there were separate rooms for the various service functions and food storage.
The current holy Ampulla was created in 1661 by goldsmith Robert Vyner for the coronation of King Charles II.
A typical Canadian sherbet may contain water, a sweetening agent, fruit or fruit juice, citric or tartaric acids, flavoring preparation, food coloring, sequestering agent(s), and lactose.
Bagel Bites also makes Breakfast Bagel Bites, which consist of breakfast toppings on the mini-bagel.
See also Greater Los Angeles portal Companies portal Food portal References External links Official website Orange County Register obituary for Don Callender
Another version is the "cornbrat" (or "corn brat"), which is a corn dog made with bratwurst instead of a hot dog.
That same year, Stouffer Corporation acquired Borel Restaurant Corporation (operators of The Rusty Scupper chain), which would continue to operate as a subsidiary corporation of Stouffer until 1986, when it was full merged into Stouffer Restaurants.
Concerns over glycerol content Some slushies contain glycerol both as a sweetener and to reduce the freezing point of the mixture to retain the slush effect.
The design of a punnet allows for easy handling, transportation, and display of produce, protecting delicate items from damage while keeping them visible to consumers.
On June 13, 2011, a total of 58 units were closed, including 31 Marie Callender's and 27 Perkins' due to bankruptcy restructuring (Chapter 11).
Linear low-density polyethylene differs structurally from conventional low-density polyethylene (LDPE) because of the absence of long chain branching.
For people at risk of listeriosis illness (those with weakened immune systems and pregnant people), it is recommended that frozen vegetables be cooked before consumption to reduce the risk.
As a ritual object, metal was considered more suitable than pottery, although most examples in pottery no doubt were broken and discarded.
Plastic containers Many products use low-density polyethylene formed into plastic bags or plastic boxes.
In 2005, the Jolly Green Giant was shown in MasterCard's "Icons" commercial during Super Bowl XXXIX, which depicts advertising mascots having dinner together.
Nougat wafers came in double or triple varieties, depending on the number of nougat wafers in the construction.
Agnes Marshall, regarded as the "queen of ices" in England, did much to popularize ice cream recipes and make its consumption into a fashionable middle-class pursuit.
Another factor is consumer reaction, with the wine-buying public in Australia and New Zealand being positive towards alternative closures, while opinion is divided among consumers in the United States.
The solera process has been used since the 17th century to produce sour ales in Sweden, where it is known as hundraårig öl ('hundred-year beer').
Japan In Japan, the equivalent food is usually called an "American dog" (アメリカンドッグ) based on the idea of where the food is thought to originate.
John's College, University of Manitoba refers to the dining area in its residence hall as The Buttery.
Contribution and examples The contribution of the hydria is displayed through its decoration and inscriptions.
The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) notes that the hogshead was first standardized by an act of Parliament (2 Hen.
By 2023, CEO Erik Frederick had trimmed back the menu, stating "You can’t be everything to everyone.
This setup allows large chunks of food (usually meat or fish) to be more easily processed compared to other methods, but is quite slow.
McCain launched the McCain Marché snack line in August, then announced the acquisition of Great American Appetizers in September 2016.
Some consider boxed wine to be lower quality compared to bottled wine, and that its bag-in-box packaging is unsuitable for wine.
In 1931, American Francis H Sherman of Palmer, Massachusetts, patented an egg carton formed with pressed paper pulp that is recognizable as the modern egg carton used today.
Etymology The origin of the word 'semifreddo' is not clearly defined, although it is supposed to indicate that it is only partially frozen.
The popular Australian tradition of meat raffles swaps to charitable Christmas food and toy hamper raffles at most local clubs and pubs from late November.
In 1945 the first Findus-branded deep-frozen food products went on sale in Sweden, produced in a small factory in Scania.
While successful in the East Coast and Midwest regions, despite an aggressive push into the Southern and Western markets in the 1990s, those gains were greatly reduced as many locations closed.
The statue was not delivered fully assembled – the pose Wyman approved had the Giant standing with hands on his hips, but he was then too wide to fit on a flatbed truck so his two arms were transported separately to be attached upon arrival in Blue Earth.
In 1871, Mason partnered with Boyd in the Consolidated Fruit Jar Company which licensed Mason jar patents to numerous glass makers.
References to print butter remain in the US state of Connecticut legal code, requiring print butter to have the net weight printed in Gothic letters at least one-half inch high.
The 1990s For six consecutive years since the mid-1990s, Tee Yih Jia has been featured in the Singapore Enterprise 50 lists.
Plastics are used because the material is lightweight and holds the temperature of hot/cold food and beverages.
Early casks were bound with wooden hoops and in the 19th century these were gradually replaced by metal hoops that were stronger, more durable and took up less space.
A clamshell is a one-piece container consisting of two halves joined by a hinge area which allows the structure to come together to close.
"The development of Chicago as a center of the meat packing industry." Mississippi Valley Historical Review 10.3 (1923): 253–273.
Texas toast is prepared by spreading butter on both sides of the bread and broiling or grilling it until it is a light golden brown.
It is especially popular in Taiwan where the dish has a variation called xuehua bing (雪花冰), in which the ice is not made out of water but milk.
Tiffin carriers are generally made out of steel and sometimes of aluminium, but enamel and plastic versions have been made by European companies.
Rubber bungs In chemistry, bungs made of hardened rubber are frequently used in small-scale experimental set-ups involving non-corrosive gases.
Ingredients Common and traditional flavoring ingredients include lemon juice, mandarin oranges, jasmine, coffee, almonds, mint, and when in season wild strawberries and black mulberries.
Around 1966, General acquired two hotels located in Yellowstone Park, operated by the company's wholly owned subsidiary Yellowstone Park Company: Old Faithful Inn and Lake Hotel.
On January 18, 2023, the company announced plans to close its Norwalk headquarters, consolidating jobs held there to Campbell Soup Company headquarters in Camden, New Jersey.
A milk churn stand was a standard-height platform on which milk churns would be placed for collection by cart or lorry.
However, this process requires oxygen, so when oxygen levels in PICS bags decrease, the orchids lose the ability to produce water and die of dehydration.
Unlike today when even bulk foods at a supermarket are usually labeled to show who produced them, in the past, the pickles or peanuts bought from a barrel at the general store, or the produce bought from a huckster's cart, were usually not labeled, let alone branded.
Bol mounted a wooden container, designed to look like a one-room schoolhouse, on a post on his lawn and filled it with books as a tribute to his late mother, a book lover and school teacher who had recently died.
The fruit is blended with sugar before being stirred with a wood spatula in the basin over ice and a bed of straw, producing a texture similar to that of sorbet.
Nestlé also offers Pretzel Bread Hot Pockets, Hot Pockets Croissant Crust (formerly called Croissant Pockets), Hot Pockets Breakfast items, Hot Pockets Breakfast/Snack Bites and Hot Pockets Side shots.
Foam plastic clamshells have been used in fast food restaurants for burgers; paperboard clamshells are currently being used similarly.
Rainbow sherbet, a flavor of sherbet consisting of three different flavors of different colors, was invented in the 1950s at Sealtest Dairy in Pennsylvania, after an employee invented a nozzle that would release three different flavors simultaneously.
Guinness World Record On May 14, 2013, a world record was made by Ralf Schröder in Germany whose collection consists of 14,502 sugar packets.
History In medieval households, the word "larder" referred both to an office responsible for fish, jams, and meat, as well as to the room in which these commodities were kept.
See also Freeze drying Ice crystals References External links Are You Storing Food Safely?—United States Food and Drug Administration
Complicating the system is the fact that it is common for villages to append the name of their most famous vineyard to that of the village.
In Canada, ice milk is defined as containing 3%–5% milk fat content, while 5%–7.5% milk fat content would instead be considered "light ice cream"; a product with an undefined milk fat content would be defined simply as a "frozen dairy dessert".
A corn dog (also spelled corndog and also known by several other names) is a hot dog on a stick that has been coated in a thick layer of cornmeal batter and deep fried.
A paan dan may be custom made to satisfy a customer's taste and usually reflects the customer's personality.
Even where trans fats are not prohibited, in many places there are new labeling laws (or rules), which require information to be printed on packages, or to be published elsewhere, about the amount of trans fat contained in certain products.
A breakfast version of the corn dog features a breakfast sausage in place of the hot dog, and pancake batter in place of the cornmeal.
The inside of the can is lined by spray coating an epoxy lacquer or polymer to protect the aluminum from being corroded by acidic contents such as carbonated beverages and imparting a metallic taste to the beverage.
He purchased the spot where the Sugar and Spice sits today from Don Philips, renamed it the Sugar and Spice.
Pots as Packaging: The Spanish Olive Jar and Andalusian Transatlantic Commercial Activity, 16th to 18th Centuries (PhD thesis).
Nicolaisen (1963) describes the method of souring milk in the Ahaggar (Hoggar Mountains): "Milk of the morning yield is put into a skin bag ("émesesley")...
EVERUN COOLERS丨explore fun in nature External links Media related to Coolers (containers) at Wikimedia Commons
Safety and environmental concerns Commentary published in Environmental Health Perspectives in April 2010 suggested that PET might yield endocrine disruptors under conditions of common use and recommended research on this topic.
Since its establishment in 1978, Lock & Lock has been exporting products to 119 countries worldwide.
In some countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, ice cream applies only to a specific variety, and most governments regulate the commercial use of the various terms according to the relative quantities of the main ingredients, notably the amount of butterfat from cream.
Several restaurants in the Pacific Northwest offer a nacho version of tots known as "totchos", covered in nacho cheese sauce and toppings.
Cork taint is a broad term referring to an off-odor and off-flavor wine fault arising from the presence in the cork of aroma-intense compounds that are transferred into wine after bottling.
After the barreling stage, the wine is transferred into the kegs holding about 26 bottles of wine each (or 130 glasses) depending on the size of the keg (19.5 liters).
The packaging and labeling of food is subject to regulation in most regions/jurisdictions, to prevent false advertising and to promote food safety, and increasingly to provide greater information to consumers relating to quality or lifestyle concerns.
Concrete's temperature can be decreased quickly, while a liquid's (such as beer or water) with its higher thermal mass requires more energy to change temperature, holding the cold for longer.
Some recipes place cake, nougat, sliced fruit, caramelised fruit, jelly or pudding at the core and base of the semifreddo.
The store features the full line of Keurig machines and accessories and nearly 200 varieties of K-Cups for creating individualized 3-, 6-, or 12-pod boxes.
In nouvelle cuisine, which shifted the standard food presentation approach from larger platters to individually pre-portioned plates, the garde manger is often responsible for arranging food decoratively on the plates.
Residual bacteria in the refrigerated storage compartment can also be activated by introducing warm products.
The legal status of the ride-on cooler varies from country to country and in the US from state to state.
The concept continues to be meticulously honored by modern woodworkers, who are aware of the difficult process involved.
Aluminum cans also contain a polymeric coating on the liquid-contacting surface to preserve the taste of the beverage, and because aluminum is susceptible to corrosion via acidic attack.
A, Short Order The Unitized Group Ration – A, Short Order (UGR-A SO) consists of meals intended to supplement the UGR-A and expand available food options or feed larger groups, especially where alternate dining facilities or existing meal options are unavailable.
In pop culture Saturday Night Live featured a popular series of ad parodies for Totino's Pizza Rolls in the 2010s, starring Vanessa Bayer.
Janur (from Javanese language ꦗꦤꦸꦂ) is a young leaf of big palm tree, especially coconut, sugar palm (Arenga pinnata) and sago palm (Metroxylon rumphii or Metroxylon sagu).
See also List of regional dishes of the United States References External links Frozen Banana Recipe - Chiquita Archived 2011-05-30 at the Wayback Machine WikiHow - How to Freeze a Banana An Arrested Development inspired recipe for Frozen Bananas
In the North Sea herring industry of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, the creel was a basket used to measure the volume of a catch.
When spices or herbs are homegrown or bought in bulk, they can be stored at home in glass or plastic containers.
Because of its multilayer nature, many packagings such as cardboard/laminated multilayer packaging, have an induction-capable layer, which is usually an aluminum foil.
Symbolism According to a study by Universitas Islam Sumatra Utara, there are seven symbolisms of the tepak sireh.
A carton is a box or container usually made of liquid packaging board (LPB), paperboard and sometimes of corrugated fiberboard.
The standardized steel shipping container was developed in the 1950s, and quickly became ubiquitous for the large-scale transportation of commercial goods.
Uno's drink list features a dozen wines and a number of specialty drinks, including frozen, mixed and nonalcoholic options.
This stabilization ensures that the frozen yogurt maintains a smooth consistency regardless of handling or temperature change.
One early commercialization of frozen custard was in Coney Island, New York, in 1919, when ice cream vendors Archie and Elton Kohr found that adding egg yolks to ice cream created a smoother texture and helped the ice cream stay cold longer.
Until 1988, this chain employed a type of packaging whose front side was not directly connected to the lateral sides, but rather the flaps fixed to the lateral sides were folded inward under the lid.
For example, bronze hydrias decorated with figures relating to love were gifts to brides, whilst those decorated with Dionysus, were used by men at gala dinner parties.
The cone, made with over 2,000 wafers, was 2.81 meters (9 ft 3 in) tall and weighed 70 kilograms (150 lb).
The searchers' task was made extremely difficult by the large size of the building's interior, the layout, which was a maze of corridors and meat lockers, many with identical flush-handle doors, and the highly flammable composition of its insulation.
Data provenance is of particular concern with electronic data, as data sets are often modified and copied without proper citation or acknowledgement of the originating data set.
Shapes Wine producers in Portugal, Italy, Spain, France and Germany follow the tradition of their local areas in choosing the shape of bottle most appropriate for their wine.
The minibar is commonly stocked with small bottles and cans of alcoholic beverages, juice, bottled water, and soft drinks.
Freezer burn appears as grayish-brown leathery spots on frozen food and occurs when air reaches the food's surface and dries the product.
Many manufacturers hesitated to resume production of "fancy" tins once the restrictions had been lifted.
Nearly all chilled or frozen ready meals sold in the UK are now clearly labeled with the salt, sugar and fat content and the recommended daily intake.
The empty bottle would be thrust bottom-end down onto this pin, puncturing a hole in the top of the punt, guaranteeing the bottle could not be refilled.
Some jockey boxes force the liquid through a solid cold plate rather than a coil of tubing (see Alternative Portable Cooler Dispensers below).
Former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon allowed Leket Israel volunteers to pick oranges from his 15-dunam orchard in Ramot HaShavim near Kfar Saba.
Distribution of Bubba Burgers began with grocery stores in the south-eastern United States and then expanded across the United States.
Bag-in-box packaging was found to have 12% to 29% of the carbon footprint of bottled wine and to be superior to bottled wine in every other ecological criterion.
In May 2016, Cavendish Farms, its process growers, the government of PEI's Potato Board and the Department of Agriculture began a three-year Enhanced Agronomy Initiative, which is led by the Potato Board's Ryan Barrett.
The Milwaukee Cold Storage Company lost a large quantity of nuts and perishable foods which were stored on the fifth floor as a result of the ammonia fumes.
By reversing the current, this concept can also heat the contents instead of cooling them, useful for keeping meals hot from a drive-through, or even to keep items from freezing in severely cold climates.
Elizabeth Dowler, Professor of Food & Social Policy at University of Warwick, said that most British people prefer the state to take responsibility for helping the hungry.
Calcium oxide is used in the following reaction: CaO(s)+ H2O(l) → Ca(OH)2(s) Copper sulfate and powdered zinc can also be used, but this process is less efficient: CuSO4(s) + Zn(s) → ZnSO4(s) + Cu(s) Anhydrous calcium chloride is often used as well.
In August 2001, Unilever sold Gorton's and BlueWater Seafoods to Nippon Suisan (USA), Inc., a subsidiary of Nippon Suisan Kaisha, for $175 million in cash.
Description These cartons have a dimpled form in which each dimple accommodates an individual egg and isolates that egg from eggs in adjacent dimples.
Some open-loop recycling operations pelletize or flatten ground-up cartons for use in building materials; closed-loop recycling is possible by separating the layers before processing, though some recyclers only recycle the cardboard fibers.
If more than this, the product loses taste, tends to shrink as it loses air, and melts more quickly than that with less air.
In 1999, Heinz sold Weight Watchers International but retained a license to use the Weight Watchers trademarks in connection with various food products.
The mixed up taste of old style aluminum dosirak started to come back in favor in the early 2000s as nostalgic comfort food, a memory of the innocence of youth.
The company's primary product is single-serve flash-frozen coffee capsules, but it also offers a subscription service that delivers frozen capsules to customers regularly.
In 1948, they sold their family car and used the money to set up a wholesale bakery with their son Don.
Individuals were encouraged to have private bottles made carrying their own seals which they then took to a wine merchant who filled them with wine from a cask using a liquid measure.
detailed “How the GREEN GIANT was born,” including mention of his partly Native American heritage: “In the early days of our company when we were pioneering new quality ideas in peas and corn, we knew we needed a distinctive so people would recognize them.
In another type, the chemicals are in the inner chamber and the beverage surrounds it in the outer chamber.
With different activities on local level, the association wants to open a dialogue with consumers and give them revealing insights about paper packaging.
This variety usually features several small projections on the lid of the container, which fit through slots on the bottom half to "lock" it, therefore keeping the cover closed.
These items required considerable craftsmanship to hold liquids and might be bound with finely-worked precious metals.
Sales As of 2001, chilled noodles accounted for sales of ¥400 billion yuan worldwide while frozen noodles accounted for sales of ¥70 billion yuan worldwide.
Many desserts from other countries like bingsu and kakikori share characteristics with namkhaeng sai.
Locations The company's head office is Dieppe, New Brunswick with sales offices in Toronto, Montreal, and Boston.
Shelf life The shelf life of pasteurized milk in HDPE bottles and LDPE pouches has been determined to be between 10 and 21 days when stored at 4–8 °C (39–46 °F).
This uptake by Asian consumers was due to the lack of preconceived ideas as to how wine should be packaged and their familiarity with premium beverages in aluminium can, such as coffee.
It was first developed for commercial use in New Zealand in 1988 in a joint venture between Tatua Foods, a dairy company, and Bernie Cook, owner of Blue Boy, a mobile franchise network.
Some corn dog purveyors sell pre-made frozen corn dogs, which are then thawed and fried again, or browned in an oven.
After Andrés stopped serving it at his LA restaurant, “The Bazaar”, in 2009, it spread throughout Taiwan, Korea, and the Philippines over the following years.
Several sources attribute the invention to Chef Mony (or Muny, Munie, Monni or Mouy), who is claimed to have made the pudding before 1840 while working for the Russian diplomat Karl Nesselrode.
Both acid and alkaline mechanisms can break down the linkages between the mannuronate (M) and guluronate (G) monomers.
Some pizzerias have eliminated the use of plastic pizza savers by returning to the old method of simply baking a bread ball into the center of their pizzas.
Many smaller breweries send their bulk beer to large facilities for contract bottling—though some will bottle by hand.
The mixture freezes to the wall of the cylinder, then is scraped off by a rotating dasher, which also keeps the mixture uniformly mixed.
Cazalla was an important wine-producing area, and botijas of wine from Cazalla were listed on several manifests of shipments to the New World.
Polymerization is through a polycondensation reaction of the monomers (done immediately after esterification/transesterification) with water as the byproduct.
They can also come in a variety of flavors ranging from fruits such as strawberry, watermelon, and pineapples, to sodas such as Coca-Cola, Sprite, and Fanta, and other flavors like caramel, chocolate, vanilla, and even ice coffee.
Recently, the Nigerian government has made efforts to revive the groundnut industry and rebuild the pyramids.
Unfrozen pre-cooked ready meals, which are merely chilled and require less time to reheat, are also popular and are sold by most supermarkets.
In a July 4, 2019 article in The Guardian, concerns were raised by some Islanders about the way in which large holding ponds in "the back country, away from people" were circumventing the spirit of the ban on new high-capacity agricultural wells on P.E.I.
These include a sulfide smell which in some circumstances adds a pleasant pungency to the wine, or may be distasteful.
Reuse of bottles requires a reverse logistics system, cleaning and sanitizing bottles, and an effective quality management system.
Preparation The traditional recipe involves poaching peeled pears in sugar syrup flavored with vanilla, sometimes enhanced with wine or lemon juice.
In January 2020, Fans Supporting Foodbanks were named as one of The Big Issue's Top 100 Changemakers for 2020.
Brands that produce non-carbonated slushes include Mr Slush, Frazil, Polar Krush, Calippo Slush, Slush Puppie, Iceberg Slush System, Arctic Slush, Kona Ice, Slushy Jack’s, and Del's.
The basket provides protection during transportation and handling, and also a flat base for the container.
Collectibility Silver, glass, china, pewter, stoneware, and other media used in the creation of tableware are collectible and have most likely been collected for centuries.
also determined other perfluorocarboxylic acids (PFCAs) in popcorn packaging, including perfluoroheptanoic (PFHpA), perfluorononanoic (PFNA), perfluorodecanoic (PFDA), perfluoroundecanoic (PFUnA), and perfluorododecanoic (PFDoA) acids.
Etymology The word pitcher comes from the 13th-century Middle English word picher, which means earthen jug.
Made of woven netting (similar to that used in traditional fishing net) over a frame of plastic tubing and a slatted wooden base, this type of creel is analogous in function to a lobster pot.
The Little Free Library organization has used funds raised to donate book exchanges through their Impact Library Program, champion diverse books through their Read in Color Program, and create a reading program called the Action Book Club, which combines reading with community service.
Both the frozen and the chilled noodles showed a decline in textural characteristics which increased in severity the further forward in time they were sampled after storage.
Technology Solar-powered refrigerators are characterized by thick insulation and the use of a DC (not AC) compressor.
Expansion in China In 2005, CDH Investments became Greatview's main investor, and the following year, Bain Capital followed with a US $40 million investment, gaining a 43.2% stake in the company.
The jars are made with either a wide mouth (3 inches (76 mm)) or regular mouth (2+3⁄8 inches (60 mm)) opening.
In November 2025, it was announced McCain had acquired the Washburn, Maine-headquartered supplier of frozen potato specialty products, Penobscot McCrum (McCrum) for an undisclosed amount.
Tee Yih Jia is the world leading manufacturer of spring roll pastry (also known as "popiah" in local context) that also manufactures a wide range of ready-to-eat Asian convenience foods such as roti paratha, crepes, cocktail prawn rolls, glutinous rice balls, spring rolls and samosas.
Simplot Company acquired the Ontario facility; Kraft Heinz retains ownership of the Ore-Ida brand, which is now produced by Simplot under a long-term agreement.
Bazaars and food stalls in the Indian subcontinent traditionally served hot beverages, such as tea, in kuhlars, which suffused the beverage with an "earthy aroma" that was often considered appealing.
In addition, a good container will have convenient and legible labeling locations, a shape that is conducive to efficient stacking and storing, and easy recycling at the end of its useful life.
Blue raspberry is a manufactured flavoring and food coloring for candy, snack foods, syrups, and soft drinks.‍ The flavor does not derive from any species of raspberry, but rather was developed using esters that are part of the flavor profile of pineapple, banana, and cherry.
A Rubbermaid distribution center remained at the former headquarters for some time, until it was in 2015 rented by GOJO Industries, Inc.
Design and materials Normally these containers come with two or three tiers, although more elaborate versions can have four.
One of the last metal lunchboxes to be widely produced was one with a design promoting Rambo: First Blood Part II.
Textual witnesses Some early manuscripts containing the text of this chapter in Hebrew are of the Masoretic Text tradition, which includes the Codex Cairensis (895), the Petersburg Codex of the Prophets (916), Aleppo Codex (10th century), Codex Leningradensis (1008).
In Victorian cuisine Creme à la Moscovite was a partially frozen ice set with isinglass (or gelatin), similar to bavarois.
The brand was introduced in 1980 by the Campbell Taggart company, who owned the El Chico restaurant chain.
History The first use of microwaves to pop corn kernels was when Raytheon engineer Percy Spencer further tested his observation of a nut candy bar melting in his pocket while working with radar tubes during WWII.
A disadvantage of screw caps according to wine expert Jancis Robinson is the opposite of oxidation: reduction, which may suppress a wine's aroma and possibly cause unpleasant ones, a problem that particularly affects Sauvignon blanc which is a grape variety with natural tendencies toward reduction.
Many common methods for determining grain damage levels include some type of visible inspection, which can carry with it a large amount of error.
Banquet was known primarily for a frozen breaded chicken, but expanded into other chicken products over the years, including chicken pot pies, chicken nuggets, ready-to-heat microwaveable dinners and buffalo wings.
Sixth Fleet stationed in the nearby harbor would often dine at 7 Portes and order peach Melba for dessert.
Including the >60% fraction of polyethylene terephthalate produced for use as polyester fibers, PET is the fourth-most-produced polymer after polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC).
As an obsolete unit of measurement, at least one source documents a 'bucket' as being equivalent to 4 imperial gallons (18 L; 4.8 US gal).
High-density polyethylene, unlike polypropylene, cannot withstand normally required autoclaving conditions.
This regulatory change encouraged other companies, including The Icee Company and Otter Pops, to introduce blue raspberry products in the early 1970s.
Carl and Neil Fletcher lay such a claim, having introduced their "Corny Dogs" at the State Fair of Texas sometime between 1938 and 1942.
While cooling, a vacuum is created inside the jar, sucking the dome downward (concave) – an indication that a seal is good.
Large ceramic storage vessels such as these are made in many countries, but only Georgia, Spain (vino de tinaja, vino de pitarra) and Portugal (vinho de talha) use them for wine-making.
In 1905, the Slade Gorton Company adopted the fisherman at the helm of a schooner (the "Man at the Wheel") as the company trademark.
For many foods, especially those in their own individual containers such as canned vegetables, the common container is the corrugated fiberboard box, Corrugated boxes are available in many sizes.
While earlier pouring vessels needed to be turned nearly upside down, pouring from a stirrup jar requires merely holding it by its stirrups and tilting it.
Entry into Europe After beginning operations in Europe in 2007, Greatview listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange in 2010, and in 2011, it made a 50 million euro investment to build a factory in the German town of Halle (Saale), in Saxony-Anhalt.
Don Callender died at age 81 in 2009 at Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, due to complications resulting from head trauma sustained during a fall at his home over a year earlier.
Clients can send in their room measurements and discuss their needs to have wine racks designed specifically for their space.
MHP is also constantly working on developing the use of leading technology in its treatment of wastewater.
The first and second story floors were constructed of concrete, and those above were constructed of timber.
An egg carton (also known as an egg box in British English) is a carton designed for carrying and transporting whole eggs.
Decline From the mid-17th century, as it became the custom for servants and their offices to be less conspicuous and sited far from the principal reception rooms, the Great Hall and its neighbouring buttery and pantry lost their original uses.
Most silverware crafted by local craftspeople have a mark or two on the bottom as a hallmark or signature of the artisan.
Domaine Laroche in Chablis, France, has been bottling its Chablis, Premier Cru and Grand Cru under screw caps since 2001 vintage.
These can openers were discontinued for individual rations by the United States Armed Forces when canned C-rations were replaced by soft-pack MREs in the 1980s.
Insect infestation and growth of fungi (including mold) go hand in hand, as many insects actually feed on the storage molds created through the deterioration of grain.
The can was opened by punching two triangular holes in the lid—a large one for drinking, and a second smaller one to admit air.
With the use of metallocene catalysts it is possible to produce polymers with densities even below 0.91 g/cm3.
Some of these parameters include rotor speed, ground speed, concave settings, sieve settings, and fan speeds.
Traditionally lemon-flavored, popular modern choices include cherry, strawberry, and other fruits and confections.
The majority of campers rely on a stove for their cooking needs as they boast several advantages over cooking over a campfire.
The presence of these compounds depends on many factors, including the place of origin, how the staves were cut and dried, and the degree of "toast" applied during manufacture.
The horn of plenty is used for body art and at Thanksgiving, as it is a symbol of fertility, fortune and abundance.
Typical materials include polyethylene (PE), polyethylene terephthalate (PET), polyamide (PA), ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVOH), aluminum foil, and paperboard.
Properties and uses Cork's elasticity combined with its near-impermeability makes it suitable as a material for bottle stoppers, especially for wine bottles.
Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990 — mandated standardized nutrition labeling and regulated health claims on food packages.
Forced to dramatically alter his diet, he came up with the idea of a line of healthier frozen foods.
These containers could be used to transport gathered food and other items, but crumbled after only a few uses.
In 2010, the New York Times reported that a French combat ration (such as cassoulet with accompaniments of deer pâté and nougat) could be traded for around five MREs, though by 2014 it was claimed that MRE menus had improved to the point that their worth had reversed.
Description Unlike a lid or bottle cap, which encloses a container from the outside without displacing the inner volume, a bung is partially or wholly inserted inside the container to act as a seal.
Ted Drewes custard shop in the Dutchtown neighborhood is the oldest frozen custard stand in the world that is still in operation.
It was not uncommon for chalices, patens and other sacred vessels to be buried with high ranking clergymen.
In the final chapter of These Happy Golden Years, Laura Ingalls Wilder provides a detailed description of the pantry built by Almanzo Wilder in their first home in De Smet, South Dakota, portraying its role in daily life on a late 19th-century homestead.
The famous Royal Gold Cup in the British Museum is called a "hanap" in the inventory of Charles VI of France of 1391.
Artisanal families have passed down the knowledge of this ancient handicraft through the generations.
History The term "fish finger" is first referenced in a recipe given in a popular British magazine in 1900, and the dish is often considered symbolic of the United Kingdom by British people.
2000 and beyond In March 2000, Tee Yih Jia shifted its operations to a Senoko facility worth more than US$150 million .
It was built out from the wall of the kitchen, in the form of an octagon, having windows on every side, except that formed by the kitchen wall, and in this was the door.
Around 1565, Bernardo Buontalenti, an innovator in ice conservation, made a sorbet with ice, salt, lemon, wine, milk, sugar, egg, and honey, "plus orange and bergamot flavouring".
Thick-sliced bread sold for making Texas toast can be used in the same manner as ordinary bread slices, such as in sandwiches, and it is especially useful for dishes involving liquids or where extra thickness could improve the product, such as French toast.
To help packaging professionals address this challenge, a Responsible food packaging platform (FitNESS Food Packaging) was created in 2017 by 11 European partners, to provide both general and in-depth training courses on the design of responsible food packaging.
Often, when unloading grain from an auger or other opening at the bottom of the silo, another worker will be atop the grain "walking it down", to ensure an even flow of grain out of the silo.
The project's goal is to fight everyday food waste and to raise awareness about this problem in society.
After its introduction, the product gained almost instant popularity and the market began to grow at a fast rate.
Geographic classification for Qualitätswein and Prädikatswein There are four levels of geographic classification, and any level of classification can be used on the label of Qualitätswein and Prädikatswein: Anbaugebiet, wine growing regions, of which there are 13.
Sherbet in Europe still refers to a type of flavored drink, while North American sherbet is similar to sorbet but with dairy.
The interior diameter of the neck of glass bottles tends to be inconsistent, making this ability to seal through variable contraction and expansion an important attribute.
An hórreo (Galician: [ˈo.re.ʊ]) is a traditional agricultural building found throughout the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula, designed to store and preserve food, especially grain, away from moisture and animals, keeping it in optimal condition.
One of the first places where queso helado was prepared was the Monastery of Santa Catalina de Siena, Arequipa, where it was made as an ice cream substitute.
Despite this, ice and snow were prized ingredients in ancient cuisines including Japanese, Chinese, and Greek cuisines.
Absorption refrigerators An absorption refrigerator works differently from a compressor refrigerator, using a source of heat, such as combustion of liquefied petroleum gas, solar thermal energy or an electric heating element.
Capacities of wine casks were formerly measured and standardised according to a specific system of English units.
It is commonly used for food and beverages such as olives and soup but also for products such as oil, chemicals, and other liquids.
Leicester, South Tyneside, Leeds, and Kirklees were the last local authorities where school milk was supplied in third of a pint glass bottles until the dairies ceased using them in 2007.
The company provides coated paper cups for fast food chains such as Burger King, as well as flexible packaging and labels for food and drink, pet food, pharmaceuticals, household and hygiene brands.
In a 2015 installment of the comic strip Wizard of Id, the Huns employed a trojan Hot Pocket in their perpetual war against the Kingdom of Id, with the intention of causing them to kill themselves slowly.
See also Bobrinski Bucket Giberville bucket Bucket brigade Coal scuttle Mop Pail (container) There's a Hole in My Bucket Veronica Bucket == References ==
Little Free Library is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization that promotes neighborhood book exchanges, usually in the form of a public bookcase.
History The first carbonated slushie machine was invented by Omar Knedlik, the owner of a Dairy Queen franchise.
See also List of the deadliest firefighter disasters in the United States References Further reading Keogh, Jim (December 2, 2009).
Silicon Valley features a smart fridge that is bought by Jian-Yang, after the old refrigerator broke down in Season 4 episode, "The Patent Troll".
Landscape and climate Throughout the Ancestral Puebloan cultural eras, water was the most important resource.
The employee responsible for these innovations, Harry Hall, was also granted patents related to innovations for the cabinet and for a safety apparatus.
Material is fed into a vibrating hopper and is pushed into the blower using a spinning spiral auger.
The paperboard pails were to some extent self-insulating, and could be used for a wide variety of foods including cooked rice, moist dishes such as egg foo young and sauced dishes, though they were unsuitable for hot highly liquid dishes such as soups.
Domino's was the first pizza producer which employed pizza boxes on a large scale and in this way expanded its delivery range beyond the area immediately close to the pizzeria.
Western ingredients brought into the country after the Korean War, along with the influence of Korean American immigrants have brought further variation to the ingredients used in the dish, with foods such as cereal, ice cream, and whipped cream being added to bingsu.
Dividers are often used to separate ingredients or dishes, especially those with strong flavors, to avoid them affecting the taste of the rest of the meal.
The air content, called overrun, can vary from 0 to 60 percent of the total volume of the finished product.
Etymology The word may be related to the Cornish words fow (plural fowys) and/or gogow (plural gogowyow), both meaning "cave".
This process of income smoothing is allowed, but non-disclosure – especially in order to consistently reach performance targets – is illegal.
Canned and packaged food items with approaching sell-by dates, labelling errors, discontinued brands, surplus inventory, minor recipe variations or damaged packaging are also donated.
Champagne and other sparkling wines: thick-walled and wide with a pronounced punt and sloping shoulders (resembling Burgundy bottles).
In different times and places across the various Christian branches, Easter baskets have served different purposes.
Amphorae were too cheap and plentiful to return to their origin-point and so, when empty, they were broken up at their destination.
Transportation costs are significantly reduced, as wine in keg greatly reduces the weight and space required to transport the same volume of wine, compared to bottles.
In addition to storing basic food items, many people choose to supplement their food storage with frozen or preserved garden-grown fruits and vegetables, as well as freeze-dried or canned produce.
Parameters for assessing the quality of wine corks With regard to density, cork used for natural wine corks usually has a mass density between 160 kg/m3 and 220 kg/m3, although it is possible to find wine corks with lower or higher densities outside that range.
Some of these contaminants are substances with known health harms, though whether they are ingested in canned food in levels sufficient to cause harms is not known.
History The Italian word sorbetto and English sherbet come from fruit syrups sweetened with honey or palm sugar and diluted with water that were once drunk by Arabs.
Polyesters like PET can be broken down through hydrolytic degradation: the ester linkage is cut by a water molecule.
In the first century, agriculturalist Columella wrote of the production of white wine in the locality, as well as that of olive oil and wheat.
It also stores other ingredients such as zarda, supari (or gua), kattha, choona (also known as "soon"), clove, cardamom (elachi), and other accessories.
In 1952, the first frozen dinners on oven-ready aluminum trays were introduced by Quaker State Foods under the One-Eyed Eskimo label, and by 1954 the company sold 2 million such dinners annually.
Faloodeh yazdi Faloodeh yazdi, also known by the traditional name maqutek in Yazd province, is a variant of faloodeh, served as a cool drink.
They became the standard form of milk packaging in the 1960s, with the discontinuation of glass bottles.
In 1947, Rudkin opened a modern commercial bakery in Norwalk, Connecticut, and soon after added plants in Illinois and Pennsylvania.
As explained further below, BiBs have also been implemented for consumer applications like boxed wine.
The Ball brand of Mason jars were manufactured in several colors, but the most common color was the distinctive "Ball blue," which the Ball Corporation used in its jars from about 1910 to 1930.
The Beer Can Collectors of America (BCCA), founded in 1970, was an organization supporting the hobby, but has now renamed itself Brewery Collectibles Club of America to be more modern.
Development of the carton slowed during World War II, but the design would see a revival within European markets in the 1960s.
The type of pizza box with flaps firmly attached to the side walls that are folded into the front wall has established itself as the standard.
United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, an ice cream wafer, consisting of a small block of ice cream between two rectangular wafer biscuits, was a popular alternative to a cone up until the 1980s.
It is widely consumed in Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Laos, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam, and forms an established component of Southeast Asian food culture, commonly sold by vendors at roadsides, hawker centres and food courts.
With widespread adoption of PICS bags, global savings of cow-pea harvests were predicted to be worth $500 million USD annually.
Together, the two sites with the support of 20,000 volunteer harvesters, produces up to 1,500 tons (3.3 million lbs) of 8–10 highly nutritious vegetables annually.
Their versatility makes them suitable for a wide range of food items that need to be kept fresh and protected from physical damage.
Disadvantages Some disadvantages of this technology are that PICS bags are prone to being stolen and therefore need to be protected.
It is also common to use blends of LDPE and LLDPE for optimal material properties in specific applications.
This continues to be normative in Eastern Christianity and Easter baskets are typically blessed before the midnight service on Holy Saturday, with their contents being consumed at the feast after the service.
It is both a traditional domestic skill (mainly as root cellaring) and, in the form of food logistics, an important industrial and commercial activity.
During the 1930s, the state standardized production, and it remained this way until the collapse of the USSR.
Irving group of companies, nor its subsidiary Cavendish Farms, were involved with the proposed land purchases".
These were tested in Southampton and South Wales against "cod fingers", a comparatively bland product used as a control.
Plastic wrap generally provides protection for food from three aspects: chemical (gases, moisture, and light), biological (microorganisms, insects and animals), and physical (mechanical damage).
Lastly, the semifreddo should be lightly piped into parchment-lined or silicone molds so that it stays fluffy and can be easily removed.
The Australian wine industry has benefited from favorable tax policies, which have led to a substantial increase in both domestic consumption and international exports.
Handles The hydria has three handles, two horizontal ones at its sides and a vertical one on its back.
The home wine maker may use any bottle, as the shape of the bottle does not affect the taste of the finished product.
In many communities the locker plant included an ice plant to serve the icebox market, or was associated with a grocery store or dairy.
In its final years, Freezer Queen was merely a brand entity for the line of frozen dinners and entrees it had previously produced.
Since shucking oysters (removing the raw meat from the shell) takes some skill and can be difficult and dangerous, it was common to have the oyster seller open the oysters so they could be taken home for use in recipes.
Other vapors Although both oxygen and water vapor represent the most studied permeants in food packaging applications, other gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2) and nitrogen (N2) have also great relevance in the preservation of food products.
The zipper storage bag's most recognized function was not realized until 1957, when a fifth-grader named Robert Lejeune demonstrated that the bag could also be used safely as a food storage device.
Feeding Hong Kong has a warehouse facility in Yau Tong and Tsuen Wan, which stores the collected food.
As an inverter compressor never switches itself off and instead runs on varying speed, it minimizes wear and tear and energy usage.
According to the Environmental Protection Agency of the United States, the recycling rate has been steadily on the rise, with data reporting that, in 2018, the recycling rate of generated packaging and containers was 53.9 percent.
John Landis Mason In 1858, a Vineland, New Jersey tinsmith named John Landis Mason (1832–1902) invented and patented a screw-threaded glass jar or bottle that became known as the Mason jar (U.S.
They first appeared in America in the early eighteenth century and were popular through the nineteenth century.
When wine is exposed to the light from sunlight, fluorescent artificial lights or any other form of lighting, it can change its flavor and aroma.
The key to this unique system is that the product being filled is not exposed to the external environment at any stage during the process and as such, there is no possibility of a bacterial load being added to the product during the filling process.
Typical formulations of common solvent cement may contain 10–50% ethyl acetate, 8–16% acetone, 12–50% butanone (methyl ethyl ketone, MEK), 0–18% methyl acetate, 12–30% polyurethane and 0-10% toluene.
The basket is traditionally lined with a white linen or lace napkin and decorated with sprigs of boxwood (bukszpan), the typical Easter evergreen and/or bazie/kotki willow branches.
This allows the use of magnetic conveyor systems to transfer empty cans through the filling and packing processes, increasing accuracy and reducing potential spillage and waste.
In New Zealand, a newspaper advertisement for ice cream appeared in 1866, claiming to be the first time ice cream was available in Wellington.
In musical instruments, particularly woodwind instruments, where it is used to fasten together segments of the instrument, making the seams airtight.
That said, any additional loss from blanching and freezing is insignificant compared to the loss from direct boiling: when compared to fresh raw vegetables, boiled fresh vegetables shows as much loss of nutrients as boiled frozen vegetables.
For instance, a producer who believes his wine is similar to Burgundy may choose to bottle his wine in Burgundy-style bottles.
Demand for the services of US food banks increased further in the late 1990s, after the "end of welfare as we know it" with the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act was signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1996.
Production and properties The production of LLDPE is initiated by transition metal catalysts, particularly Ziegler or Philips types of catalyst.
Name of the producer or bottler (e.g.: Staatsweingüter Kloster Eberbach) German wine domaines/"châteaux" are often called "Kloster", "Schloss", "Burg", "Domaine" or "Weingut" followed by some other name.
Debuting in time for back-to-school 1950, it would go on to sell 600,000 units in its first year alone, each at US$2.39.
The earliest known documentation of ice-based desserts within Korea existed during the Joseon period (1392–1897) which employed the use of crushed ice with various fruits, and were distributed from the ancient Korean ice storage called Gyeongju Seokbinggo (Korean: 석빙고).
The properties of polypropylene depend on the molecular weight and molecular weight distribution, crystallinity, type and proportion of comonomer (if used) and the isotacticity.
Its current Executive chairman, Sam Goi Seng Hui, acquired the company from its founders for $450,000 in 1977 as part of his business diversification plan.
They have been available in the United Kingdom, United States, and many other industrialized countries since the 1961s.
Commercial hampers A number of companies sell ready-made food hampers or provide customised hampers, which may involve sourcing specific items.
The dessert also became commonly sold by mobile street vendors throughout Taiwan, embedding it in popular childhood memories for many Taiwanese residents.
It is common to blend the papaya and ice cream, then put into serving dish and pour about an ounce of creme de cassis on the top.
A small amount of water is introduced into the air stream during filling to help lubricate the filling tube.
The pouch is then heated to 240–250 °F (116–121 °C) for several minutes under high pressure inside a retort or autoclave machine.
Earthenware is glazed or unglazed nonvitreous pottery that has normally been fired below 1,200 °C (2,190 °F).
In some jurisdictions, a driver's license is required to operate any form of motor vehicle on public roads, and an intoxicated driver can be convicted of driving under the influence for riding one.
Spoilage is caused by the practically unavoidable infection and subsequent decomposition of meat by bacteria and fungi, which are borne by the animal itself, by the people handling the meat, and by their implements.
The project was established in cooperation with regional charitable organisations, the Latvian Association of Samaritans, advertising agency DDB Worldwide, and the international public relations agency Nords Porter Novelli.
History Great Depression The Great Depression caused a strong economic crisis between 1930 and 1932, affecting saltpeter and copper exports, which is why it has been considered the nation most affected by the crisis.
It is a wine-cask as big as a cottage, and some traditions say it holds eighteen thousand bottles, and other traditions say it holds eighteen hundred million barrels.
This cooled air is returned to the refrigerator or freezer compartment, and so keeps the box air cold.
Reuse Wine corks cannot be reused as wine corks due to bacterial concerns, but they can be recycled into many other useful objects such as corkboards, coasters, and flooring, and used for all kinds of craft projects.
According to The Straits Times, Dragon's Breath first appeared in the Philippines and South Korea circa 2015, but gained popularity when Los Angeles-based chain, Chocolate Chair, added it to its menu.
As a result, Birds Eye withdrew all other products produced by the same supplier in the UK and Ireland.
In Vietnam, the worm-like rice flour strands are called bánh lọt, meaning “secreted jellies”, and are a common ingredient in the dessert drink chè.
It includes a LCD information window that features electronic pen, data memo, video messaging and schedule management functions and provides information, such as inside temperature, the freshness of stored foods, nutrition information and recipes.
It is a small flat strip of steel with a hinged sharpened cutting blade that lies flat against the body when not in use.
These are used on automated filling systems where the bag is separated on line either before the bag is automatically filled or after.
An attempt to recreate the chocolate-covered banana from "The Bear" episode of The Bear recommended adding peanut butter or coconut oil to the melted chocolate for a better dip and a "snappier" chocolate shell.
Drying removes moisture, reduces bacterial growth, and inhibits metabolic processes and enzymatic decomposition.
Etymology and term origin When the word cellarette is broken apart as "cellar-ette" it denotes a small piece of furniture used to store bottles of alcoholic beverages.
The sandwich is called “Brioche con Gelato” in Italian and consists of a soft Brioche roll split open on top and filled with gelato.
Environmental concerns The accumulation of plastic debris on the Earth is seen as a threat to both wildlife and the environment.
Solar fridges were introduced in the developing world to cut down on the use of kerosene or gas-powered absorption refrigerated coolers which are the most common alternatives.
Beograd) is a Serbian maker of ice cream, which also sells frozen fruit, vegetables, fish, and pastries.
Wine corks can be made of either a single piece of cork, or composed of particles, as in champagne corks; corks made of granular particles are called "agglomerated corks".
Juice boxes were originally designed in a very specific fashion, a style that has proved to be successful as it has remained, for the most part, unchanged.
See also Raccard Hambar Horreum Corn crib References External links Hórreo de Carnota Asturian Hórreo Galician hórreos Horreos in English es:Archivo:Santa fe navarra horreo jpg Nice collection of images of horreos.
Varieties The different varieties of foam takeout containers may include: A rectangular shaped clamshell style container with an attached lid, which comes in various sizes.
"Home" is a translation of the last word in the company's name "Jia" (家) – the place where most of Spring Home's products are used.
Some manufacturers are now exploring alternative materials like stainless steel for aesthetic and durability reasons, particularly in premium boxed wine markets.
Other accounts say ice cream originated in the Mongol Empire and first spread to China during its expansion.
Fold-Pak, formerly Bloomer Brothers of Newark, NY, is a division of WestRock with three production facilities: Hazleton, PA, Fresno, CA, and Lebanon, TN.
Garde Manger: The Art and Craft of the Cold Kitchen ISBN 0-7645-7663-1 External links Gardemanger.com web archive Wiktionary: garde-manger
See also K-ration – older multiple-course field ration 5-in-1 ration – older group ration for five soldiers 10-in-1 food parcel – older group ration for ten soldiers Notes == References ==
Germany In Germany, ice cream sandwiches are made with two wafers and the three-flavour combination called Fürst-Pückler-Eis, elsewhere known as Neapolitan ice cream.
When exposed to consistent sunlight, the plastic produces significant amounts of two greenhouse gases: methane and ethylene.
A food storage calculator can help determine how much of these staple foods a person needs to store to sustain life for one full year.
In October 1965, it opened a division in the Netherlands with Eurofrost NV called Ross Diepvries in Breda, to distribute and make its products in the Dutch market.
Can collections can be exclusive to one sector only, eg., some collectors may collect soda cans only, while others may dedicate themselves to collecting beer cans or oil cans exclusively, but some collectors may collect cans regardless of the type of can.
In 1979, General's contract to manage two hotels in Yellowstone Park was terminated due to "poor service" and inadequate maintenance of the properties, according to the National Park Service.
Ride-on coolers A ride-on cooler is a means of transportation that can store and cool beverages and other food products.
A pantry is a room or cupboard where beverages, food, (sometimes) dishes, household cleaning products, linens or provisions are stored within a home or office.
The design was introduced in the summer of 2008 and is marketed as environmentally friendly because of the shape's advantages for shipping and storage (better cube efficiency).
Creation Takiding is made with materials obtained from the forest, which include bamboo, bamban (Donax canniformis), rattan and tree leaves.
A corked bat is made by replacing the interior of a baseball bat with cork – a practice known as "corking".
planned to use the book as the basis for a movie, with a screenplay written by Scott Silver, a Worcester native.
Often regarded as a precursor to the bonbonniere was the drageoir, an earlier type of container used during the Middle Ages and the Renaissance primarily for dragees (sugar-coated almonds).
The presence of these plastics in oceans has detrimental effects on both marine life and human life.
Hot Pockets is an American brand of microwaveable turnovers generally containing one or more types of cheese, meat, or vegetables.
Success was achieved when they developed a reactor vessel that extruded polystyrene through a heated tube and cutter, producing polystyrene in pellet form.
Texas toast may have been first created in 1946 at the Pig Stand in Denton, Texas, after a bakery order for thicker slices of bread resulted in slices too thick for the toaster; a cook, Wiley W.
Company sale and other businesses By the time Callender sold the company in 1986 to Ramada for a reported $80 million, the chain had grown to 120 locations nationwide.
His creation was named the Tetra Brik, and gained popularity because the product was efficient and a major space saver compared to the canisters that were previously used.
The inscription on the zebu and calf from Khorasan states that it was "cast in one," or, in other words, was cast using the lost-wax casting process.
In October 1994, the Minnesota Department of Health informed the company that 67 people in southern Minnesota had been infected with salmonella enteritis and that there was a strong statistical link between the illnesses and Schwan's ice cream.
By 2004, Keurig had a prototype ready for home use, but so did large corporate competitors like Salton, Sara Lee, and Procter & Gamble, which introduced their single-serve brewers and pods.
A lunch box (or lunchbox) is a hand-held container used to transport food, usually to work or to school.
A ballotin is a cardboard box that is traditionally used to package the Belgian praline confections.
The imposing Green Giant is typically included in lists of America's unusual or notable roadside attractions, and has been featured in numerous magazines, including Time, Budget Travel, and Mental Floss.
In the United States, ice cream made with just cream, sugar, and a flavouring (usually fruit) is sometimes referred to as "Philadelphia style" ice cream.
A jockey box is an insulated container containing ice and water, as well as a long coil of hollow tubing.
The housing density of an area may also influence whether or not a basement is considered necessary.
Similarly, the mixture and additional elements must be cooled before being folded into the cold cream to prevent it from splitting.
Snap-in plastic "splash guards" that narrow the neck opening to a size where drinking while in motion is less likely to cause spilling.
In 1979, the US adopted the metric system for liquor bottles, with the basic wine bottle becoming 750 mL, as in Europe.
Her son's doctor recommended the bread to his other patients and encouraged her to sell it to the public.
Cleanskin wine was introduced to Australia in the early 2000s as a way for the wine industry to cope with a massive oversupply of wine, and a resulting drop in prices.
Soda fountain Tutedhara Vending machine References External links Media related to Water coolers at Wikimedia Commons
The material it is made from is lighter than the other plastic alternatives, providing it with a better carbon footprint.
The name is a reference to the unsatisfied temptations of the Greek mythological character Tantalus.
In 2010, the company integrated the new version of eSommelier that enables their collectors to value their wine and calculate their Robert Parker maturity date.
More traditional Polish churches use a straw brush for aspersing the water; others use the more modern metal holy water sprinkling wand.
Banquet Foods is a subsidiary of Conagra Brands that sells various food products, including frozen pre-made entrées, meals, and desserts.
Kart Food Industries Sdn Bhd (doing business as Kart's) is a Malaysian halal-certified frozen food suppliers company established since 1988, specialising in Malaysian cultures food and Western-snacks.
Up until the latter part of the twentieth century, when they became less common, the sacks were one of the primary tools for fighting grass fires in rural areas, used while soaked with water when available.
A number of UK supermarkets sell their own brand versions of Arctic Roll, both chocolate and raspberry variants, and did so even when Birds Eye were not marketing the product.
In April 2009, ConAgra reintroduced Healthy Choice's line of frozen meals along with new products, including a line of All Natural Entrees.
PLA also exhibited similar rates of degradation in the ocean as polyethylene terephthalate (PET), a petroleum-based plastic used for similar applications.
An improperly sealed jar will allow the dimple to move up and down, sometimes making a popping noise.
As early as 1911, cardboard punnets with wire handles were being used, and increasingly, moulded pulp and corrugated fiberboard are being used, as they are perceived to be more sustainable materials.
The food is sorted and delivered to a network of partner charities, such as Bethune House, Crossroads Foundation, and Pok Oi Hospital, who provide food to the hungry in Hong Kong.
See also Retort Shelf-stable food Environmental impacts of sterile food packaging References Further reading Yam, K.
Some sources say that the sundae was invented to circumvent blue laws, which forbade serving sodas on Sunday.
The Grande Armée began experimenting with issuing canned foods to its soldiers, but the slow process of canning and the even slower development and transport stages prevented the army from shipping large amounts across the French Empire, and the wars ended before the process was perfected.
Rinsing thoroughly after opening may reduce the amount of salt in canned vegetables, since much of the salt content is thought to be in the liquid, rather than the food itself.
While scientists have considered accessing the liquid to further analyze the content, as of 2024, the bottle has remained unopened because of concerns about how the liquid would react when exposed to air.
Since it does not contain chlorine it does not produce dioxins or hydrochloric acid during incineration, PLA can be combusted with no remaining residue.
The dehydration of freezer-burned food is caused by water sublimating from the food into the surrounding atmosphere.
According to The Times of India, Kuremal Mohan Lal Kulfi Wale (founded in 1906) in Old Delhi and Prakash Kulfi (established in 1956) in Lucknow are among the most "legendary" kulfi shops in India.
One of the earliest references of a strawberry cake recipe can be found in the journal Ohio Cultivator in 1845.
It is often used by American Chinese cuisine restaurants in the United States to package take-out food.
It was founded in 2015 by Liverpool fan Ian Byrne and Everton fans Dave Kelly and Robbie Daniels in response to rising food poverty linked to the programme of austerity implemented by the UK government from 2010.
These dispensers are commonly classified as household appliances and can often be found in household kitchens and office pantries.
In one account, first publicized in 1996, retired Swanson executive Gerry Thomas said he conceived the idea after the company found itself with a huge surplus of frozen turkeys because of poor Thanksgiving sales.
The Gastronorm standard was first introduced in Switzerland in 1964 and became an official European standard in 1993 with the EN 631 standard.
After it is fired, earthenware is opaque and non-vitreous, soft and capable of being scratched with a knife.
Description Bici bici is a very light dessert, typical of southern Turkey and the Mediterranean region in general, especially the provinces of Adana and Mersin, where it is especially consumed in the summer.
By extension, the term has been used to refer to any ice cream confection shaped through molding, not necessarily hemispherical.
Frozen vegetables are vegetables that have had their temperature reduced and maintained to below their freezing point for the purpose of storage and transportation (often for far longer than their natural shelf life would permit) until they are ready to be eaten.
Activists claimed that water utilized and contaminated during the production process flowed to Rosava river.
Milk fat comprises about 0.55–6% of the yogurt; added in quantities inversely proportional to the amount of milk solids, it lends richness to the yogurt.
Production Materials The compositions of earthenware bodies vary considerably, and include both prepared and 'as dug'; the former being by far the dominant type for studio and industry.
Libby's (Libby, McNeill & Libby) is a brand and former American company that produced canned food and beverages.
When the tree reaches 25–30 years of age and about 24 in (60 cm) in circumference, the cork can be removed for the first time.
History The Foodbank of Indonesia, established on May 20, 2015, in Jakarta, holds the distinction of being the first food bank in Indonesia.
fan group The Green Brigade, Fans Supporting Foodbanks started collecting food donations in wheelie-bins outside pubs on matchdays.
Soon after its introduction, the bottle became extremely popular with the soft drink and brewing industries, mainly in Europe, Asia and Australasia, though some alcohol drinkers disdained the use of the bottle.
See also Food storage Reusable packaging Gastronorm, a European standard for food container sizes, both for cooking and storage Shaker-style pantry box References Robertson, G.
With the development of classical French cuisine under the influence of François Pierre La Varenne and his 1651 book Le cuisinier françois, the garde manger also took on fresh fruits and vegetables.
Bags used in different applications, such as packaging for food, fertilizer, or other dry materials like cement are subject to different quality standards and safety requirements and may be multi-walled or otherwise reinforced.
Huhtamäki Oyj (styled Huhtamaki) is a global food packaging company, headquartered in Espoo, Finland.
The building has a rail line that enters the second floor and the walls are 3 feet (0.91 m) thick concrete.
The whole cake is then kept frozen until serving, when it is allowed to thaw until it can be easily sliced but not so much as to melt the ice cream.
Afterwards, they are combined with the syrup mixture and rapidly cooled until the syrup is at least half-frozen.
Anderson of the Canadian Grain Commission, textural attributes of the frozen variety were tested at 1 and 4 weeks after frozen storage, and the chilled variety at the 30 minute and 1, 2 and 7 days marks.
Vitale called her model a "package saver" and used that term also as the title of her patent, but it has since been renamed the "pizza saver" since that has become its most common use.
An initiative by a supermarket group in 2012 (backed by the United Kingdom's Waste & Resources Action Programme) promotes the freezing of food "as soon as possible up to the product's 'use by' date".
Apart from the Soup Kitchen, KSK also has other programs like the Food Bank program and Empowerment program.
Kodo millet-based edible packaging In 2025, a researchers team consisting of Kirtiraj Gaikwad and Bhushan P.
Imagine an ideal clay bed in which the same elements are found at the same concentrations in every sample at random.
All are supplied with groundwater from "multiple low-capacity wells nearby" using electric pumps, housed in sheds.
military, the DoD, the federal government, government employee commissaries, government contractors (if their contract specifically permits such purchases), foreign governments with authorized contractual relationships, and civilians as humanitarian aid.
In addition, the company has 11 overseas sales units including in Germany, United States, China, Vietnam, and 87 overseas directly operated stores in the world.
Suspending the canister can allow the bear to smash it to the ground or use the suspension gear to carry it away.
In the United Kingdom, 14 million adults buy ice cream as a treat, in a market worth £1.8 billion (according to a report produced in 2024).
While MHP continued commercial sales in Ukraine since the war began, export sales have ceased as a result of ports being closed, while export delivery by truck remained practically impossible.
Products and Innovation Lock & Lock's initial success came from the development of the four-side locking system for airtight containers, which was designed to be leak-proof.
The open ventilation and the sturdiness offered by a hamper has made it suitable for the transport of food, hence the use of the picnic hamper.
Plastic bottles are typically used to store liquids such as water, soft drinks, motor oil, cooking oil, medicine, shampoo, milk, and ink.
Retort pouches are used in baby and toddler food, camping food, field rations, fish products, instant noodles, space food, sports nutrition, and brands such as Capri-Sun and Tasty Bite.
The 2008 economic downturn saw the reappearance of Arctic roll as consumers increasingly looked for low-cost foods.
The poached pears are then served warm over scoops of vanilla ice cream and topped with a rich hot chocolate sauce.
The large intestine of animals contains some 3.3×1013 viable bacteria, which may infect the flesh after death if the carcass is improperly dressed.
The once-thriving chain, whose heyday in the 1940s saw over 100 locations across the United States, also claims to be the originator of the onion ring.
Cultural significance In tribute to Escoffier an elaborate deconstruction of the peach Melba was served as the last dish at El Bulli prior to its closure in 2012.
Kid Cuisine variants have been attested historically to be composed of three or four selections of food.
Australian variety In Australia during the 2010s, a local variety of açaí bowls became common in Sydney, particularly within the gym and fitness culture.
Towns claiming to be the birthplace of the sundae include Buffalo, Two Rivers, Ithaca, and Evanston.
Before that, food storage containers were used for non-perishable foods, or with preservatives such as salt, sugar, vinegar, or alcohol.
However, earthenware can be made impervious to liquids by coating it with a ceramic glaze, and such a process is used for the great majority of modern domestic earthenware.
Customers were initially angry, but were won over, when they realized that these were the same bagels they had been satisfied with for the previous two years.
In particular, the overlap of immigration status and workplace exposures can result in a variety of negative health outcomes.
Advertisements for Kid Cuisine were consciously aimed at the child, which was urged to request their mothers or parental guardians to buy these items, especially in the upper range of the 3-10 year old range the brand aimed at.
In the United Kingdom and its colonies, the units were redefined with the introduction of the imperial system in 1826, whilst the Queen Anne wine gallon was adopted as the standard US gallon in 1836.
Researchers have reported that in some cases food banks can be inefficient compared with state-run welfare.
From about 1973 Yalumba and a group of other wineries – Hardys, McWilliams, Penfolds, Seppelt, Brown Bros and Tahbilk – were involved in developing and proving up the concept and began using it commercially in 1976.
Construction A bear canister typically weighs between 2–4 lb (1–2 kg), and has a storage capacity of 400–900 in3 (6–15 liters).
Health issues Health concerns came to light in August 2002, when the Center for Environmental Health discovered that many popular vinyl lunch boxes contained dangerous levels of lead.
This indentation localizes the applied stress from lifting the tab and acts as a stress shield to apply a critical amount of localized stress to fracture the aluminum along the scored line.
Excavated examples at Halliggye, Carn Euny, and Boden suggest fogous may have been deliberately filled back in after use, or upon abandonment of the surrounding settlement.
In the 1950s, British designer H.G Bennett, working for manufacturing company Hartmann, adapted the egg tray design to include a sealable lid, to allow for easy stacking and transportation of 6 or 12 eggs.
At this time, machines were made that could produce small packets of sugar for nearly half the cost.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Tetra Pak's Homepage How cartons are made, [1]
Intermediate between a pithos (large storage vessel) or amphora (transport vessel), and individual cups or bowls, it held fluid for several persons temporarily until it could be poured.
In 2018, Fans Supporting Foodbanks invited football fans to screenings of World Cup games at the Abdullah Quilliam Mosque.
Manufacture A 1903 work describes the construction of punnets; Strawberry punnets or baskets as used by fruiterers are made of thin strips of wood, well soaked before use.
Clerk of the Hanaper Clerk of the Hanaper became an office in the department of the chancery, now abolished.
Some compounds, such as polyfluoroalkyl phosphate surfactants (PAPs) or fluorotelomers (FTOH), have been used in some brands of microwave popcorn bags.
This aesthetic approach helped overcome the Victorian era's social taboos regarding indoor sanitation.
Frozen noodles and chilled noodles are types of instantly prepared Asian (or European) noodles that are sold frozen or chilled.
Fruit salad Frozen fruit salads were especially appealing in households without domestic workers who wanted to entertain guests.
The tubers in the best condition are selected, stacked in a heap on a layer of grass, and covered in layers of grass and soil.
Another difference between commercially produced frozen custard and commercial ice cream is the way the custard is frozen.
"Hell in a handbasket" was the name of an undescribed con requiring a trained cat referenced in the 2004 film, Ocean's Twelve.
Fate Many milk churn stands would have been lost during road improvement schemes owing to their proximity to the roadside but many were left in situ to slowly decay; thus there are few original wooden examples.
Instead of being packed in reusable crates, the square jugs are shrink wrapped for shipment; however, the hundreds of square feet of single-use polyethylene film "stretch wrap" used on each pallet raises significant new environmental concerns.
The principles governing mandatory food information is in Article 4, and the list of mandatory particulars in Article 9.
He decided to follow the example of his vegetarian wife Debbie and daughter Tammy after observing the inhumane conditions in a working pig farming facility built by his own construction firm.
A garde manger (French: [gaʁd mɑ̃ʒe]) is a cool, well-ventilated area where savory cold dishes (such as salads, hors d'œuvres, appetizers, canapés, pâtés, and terrines) are prepared and other foods are stored under refrigeration.
The disadvantage is that water quality cannot be guaranteed, and some operators can put too much water in to make it go further.
Sustainability and recycling of steel beverage cans Steel recycling From an ecological perspective, steel may be regarded as a closed-loop material: post-consumer waste can be collected, recycled and used to make new cans or other products.
Gallery See also Bento (弁当) Biandang (便當) Dosirac (도시락) Lunch box Packed lunch Tiffin == References ==
Business Restaurants In later years, a typical restaurant would have a fully stocked bar, or saloon, serving alcoholic beverages.
A thermal bag is a type of thermally insulated shipping container in the form of a bag which can be carried, usually made of thermally insulating materials and sometimes a refrigerant gel.
Ice kenkey (also known as Mashed Ke/ Masked kenkey) is a popular Ghanaian dessert made from kenkey, a steamed dumpling made from fermented cornmeal.
The term "Ramly Burger" has been used as a genericized trademark for similarly-prepared burgers which are not necessarily made with the Ramly beef patty as well.
The hamper opened with a "built-in midget-size icebox" and slide-out trays "for everyone who wants to eat away from the ants." Picnic hamper foods usually include pre-prepared sandwiches, pies, fruit, cake, salads and other dishes.
Inventor Several Australian sources credit engineer Geoff Milton (born 1925) with designing the modern plastic milk crate used by the Dairy Farmers Co-operative Milk Company in New South Wales in the late 1950s.
Bacterial contamination can severely compromise quality, and handlers must exercise caution to maintain quality.
In earlier times they were made from wooden staves held together with iron hoops and were made by coopers.
After-market resellers and wine auction houses will often inspect the ullage levels of older vintages to determine the potential quality and value of wine.
Bruce Hall at the Australian National University also maintains a buttery, which is an informal canteen and bar.
If the wine does not already exist in the database, the user can create it himself, thus adding to the completeness of the CellarTracker database.
In some areas, coconut milk is replaced with santan sawit (palm-kernel milk) in a variant commonly known as cendol sawit.
Persons in need, whether members of the church or not, can access the storehouse by approaching a bishop or local Relief Society president.
Stouffer Corporation was purchased by Nestlé in 1973 and fully integrated into its Nestlé USA division in 1998.
Such jars have been found at the Santo Domingo Monastery in Antigua Guatemala, the Huaco Palomin site in Peru, and Santa Elena (in South Carolina), and in wrecks of ships in the Spanish Armada of 1588 and, possibly, in the Nuestra Señora de Atocha wreck in the Florida Keys.
Products The product range initially consisted of only a handful of basics including sausages, hot dogs, and burger patties.
The Italian dessert spumoni is shaped as a bombe with a semifreddo or parfait filling and custard ice cream forming the outside layer.
Factories Vũng Tàu, Vietnam (plastic/glass/cookware) Manshan, Suzhou, China History 1978, established as Kukjin Distribution Corp.
While packaging waste is a concern, the main priority for vendors is to minimize food waste caused by spoilage.
Whereas the butter churn which was fitted with a plunger for churning the milk into butter, the milk churn lacked a plunger and so, despite its name, was not used for churning.
When he returned to Japan, he made his own version of strawberry cake by using primary ingredients like strawberry, whipped cream, and sponge cakes.
The initial form of closure for the glass canning jar was a zinc screw-on cap, the precursor to today's screw-on lids.
Origin of the name There are two conflicting claims of the origin of the name Bocksbeutel, although the Beutel-part stands for "container" in both cases.
As reported in an 1879 issue of The Gentleman's Magazine, the conical pottle had given way to the punnet, being mainly manufactured in Brentford of deal, or the more preferred willow, by hundreds of women and children.
Breadboxes are most commonly big enough to fit one or two average size loaves of bread—up to about 16 inches wide by 8 to 9 inches high and deep (40 cm × 20 cm × 20 cm).
Colin Martin suggested that there were "official" and "civilian" botijas, with the official jars being Goggin's Form B (globular) in two sizes, while civilian jars varied considerable in shape.
* For many years, the US standard (non-metric) wine and liquor bottle was the "fifth", meaning one-fifth of a US gallon, or 25.6 US fluid ounces (757 mL; 26.6 imp fl oz).
BiB technology is still used for its original application of dispensing sulfuric acid for filling lead-acid batteries in garages and dealerships.
Synthetic corks Synthetic corks are made from plastic compounds designed to look and "pop" like natural cork, but without the risk of TCA contamination.
In North America, the term generally refers to a household receptacle, often a basket, for clean (out of the dryer or off the line) or dirty clothing, regardless of its composition, i.e.
Tyson has supported "Little Free Pantries," and has partnered with the Chicago Urban League for educational programs on misconceptions about SNAP (food stamp) benefits.
Bottled water is normally delivered to households or businesses on a regular basis, where empty returnable polycarbonate bottles are exchanged for full ones.
Most municipally consumed ice was harvested in winter from snow-packed areas or frozen lakes, stored in ice houses, and delivered domestically.
Acetaldehyde Acetaldehyde, which can form by degradation of PET after mishandling of the material, can cause an off-taste in bottled water.
On the other hand, crystallization is important in other applications where mechanical and dimensional stability are important, such as seat belts.
Ingredients Common ingredients used in the filling include whipped cream, condensed milk, or pudding.
Originally named "Tralin Pak″, the company was initially engaged in the production and sale of multi-layered compound packaging materials, paper cartons and other paper packages for beverage companies in the PRC, but re-established as a manufacturer of aseptic packs after its current CEO, Mr.
In addition to ricotta, the filling usually consists of gelato (which makes it look like semifreddo), butter cream or cream, cottage cheese, chocolate chunks, and almonds.
The vessel was loaned to the David and Alfred Smart Gallery at the University of Chicago for the exhibition: "Blue and White: Chinese Porcelain and Its Impact on the Western World." It ran from October 3 to December 1, 1985.
Previously, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were added to certain PVC products as flame retardants and stabilizers.
Also in 1979, General sold its Van de Kamp's bakery division, the largest retail bakery in California, to a group of private investors, returning control back to the West Coast.
A common Australian drinking game is Goon of Fortune, in which a goon bag is suspended from a Hills Hoist and spun, and whoever it stops on must drink a selected amount of the goon.
Gelatin or vegetable additives (guar gum, carrageenan) stabilize the yogurt, reducing crystallization and increasing the temperature at which it will melt.
Two months later, Doux announced their interest in focusing primarily on their exports, which constituted 81% of their turnover and reducing their fresh productions.
Further developments led to the modern muselet which is made of steel wire twisted to add strength and with a small loop of wire twisted into the lower ring which can be untwisted to release the pressure of the muselet and give access to the cork.
Ore-Ida would refer to itself as “Ore-Richie” for the duration of Saunders’ and BYU’s stay in the 2025 NCAA Division I men’s basketball tournament.
In an environment with 100% relative humidity, very little water evaporates and so most of the loss is alcohol, a useful trick if one has a wine with very high proof.
Today, most frozen food trays are made of a microwaveable and disposable material, usually plastic or coated cardboard.
See also Related Bible parts: Jeremiah 1, Jeremiah 32, Jeremiah 38, Jeremiah 39, Jeremiah 44; Amos 7, Amos 8; Zechariah 1, Zechariah 2 References Bibliography Würthwein, Ernst (1995).
Sugar packets are commonly supplied in restaurants, coffeehouses, and tea houses, where they are preferred to sugar bowls or sugar dispensers for reasons of neatness, sanitation, spill control, and to some extent portion control.
From absorption cooling unit to compressor Typically the minibar cooling unit was different from standard refrigerators, using absorption technology.
The company's base in China started manufacturing hot drinks paper cups in most of the common sizes in 2007 and has since diversified into producing cups for cold drinks.
See also Gluten-free diet Gluten-free, casein-free diet Gluten sensitivity List of frozen food brands References External links Official site
When the pies returned to the market, cooking temperature requirements for serving were made more apparent on the packaging; competitor brands also followed suit.
This surpasses the previous record holder, the Speyer wine bottle (discovered in 1867), by three centuries.
The context in which the story appeared was Erasmus' collection of proverbs, the Adagia (1508), in illustration of the Latin saying Malo accepto stultus sapit ("from experiencing trouble a fool is made wise").
Cozy Dog Drive-in, in Springfield, Illinois, claims to have been the first to serve corn dogs on sticks, on June 16, 1946.
After the secondary fermentation completes, the champagne must be transferred from the magnums into larger bottles, which results in a loss of pressure.
It was a small, labour-intensive spring roll pastry producer, using semi-mechanized machinery in its production and serving the local Singapore market.
History One of the brand’s first and most popular products, the California Veggie Burger, was inspired by Dr.
Pre-mixed product (see definitions below) is introduced to the storage chamber of the machine where it is kept at 3 °C (37 °F).
In both its uses, a buttery is to be distinguished from the butter and lard-house (pantry or larder), and the kitchen, a hostelry, or the refectory for guests or the dining hall for the inhabitants.
Such containers usually hold soups and stews; however, smaller varieties are often used to hold sauces and condiments.
As a result, demand for canned food skyrocketed; canned food would not spoil during long transport and could endure harsh conditions in the trenches.
A mix with high or low-fat content can be chosen, and the amount of air introduced into the soft-serve frozen yogurt is variable.
The cells of cork are filled with a gas mixture similar to air, making them behave as authentic "pads," which contributes to the capability of cork to recover after compression.
The term is now used widely to indicate similarly sized cases, including corrugated boxes, produced for various home and commercial uses.
Some jars with a distinctive red paste and a different style of rim marks may have been produced in Cazalla de la Sierra, 75 km north-northeast of Seville.
In one version, the inner chamber holds the food or drink, and the outer chamber houses chemicals which undergo an exothermic reaction when combined.
Preparation Commercially produced sherbet in the United States is defined in the Code of Federal Regulations as a frozen product containing one or more optional dairy products.
Opening mechanisms Early metal drink cans had no tabs; they were opened by a can-piercer or churchkey, a device resembling a bottle opener with a sharp point.
Reception In the consumer market, retort pouches have gained great popularity outside of the United States, particularly in the Pacific Rim region.
Nevertheless, the Brunei Arts and Handicraft Centre has since provided courses on weaving takiding and other traditional handicrafts.
Niagara Trading Company (now NTC Marketing, Inc.) acquired a long-term license for the Libby's name for canned pineapple and juices in 1983.
Ultrasonic heat sealing Ultrasonic sealing is a particular type of sealing because, in contrast to other sealing techniques, it creates a seal by combining pressure and vibration.
Mold tools tend to be manufactured from steels (which can be hardened and plated), and aluminum alloys.
It was a one-story building with a stepped parapet facade, with part of an outset cornice on its top tier.
In 1902, Weck left the company, Van Eyck continued to improve the design and function of the jar, and started exporting the jars outside of Germany.
Examples See also Hambar Hórreo Horreum Raccard Storage silo Corn crib Groote Schuur, the stately South African home was originally a granary.
Because of the advantages of aluminium packaging (shelf life, durability, food grade factor) over plastics, it is considered an alternative to PET bottles, with the possibility of replacing the majority of them in the next decades.
From Aristophanes’s Lysistrata we have evidence that the office of kanephoros was the last in a sequence of religious duties that an unmarried Athenian girl might undertake; first as an arrhephoros, later an aletris, then as an arktos (ἄρκτος).
The Trussell Trust runs two out of three UK food banks and gave out 823,145 food parcels from April to September 2019, of which 301,653 went to children.
Once turned under, and depending on ground conditions, the unsupported advance may be increased to 4 ft (1.2 m), 6 ft (1.8 m), and longer increments.
Steel beverage cans are recycled by being melted down in an electric arc furnace or basic oxygen furnace.
Jacques sometimes produced a certificate with his forgeries, stating that a work was created by his father.
The communal kitchens/dining rooms in Goodenough College, a postgraduate student residence hall in central London are called butteries, one example being "the Princess Alice Buttery" in William Goodenough House.
It is recommended that canisters be left on the ground, at least 100 feet/30 metres from the campsite.
The bottle has developed over millennia of use, with some of the earliest examples appearing in China, Phoenicia, Rome and Crete.
Usually more tart than ice cream (the tanginess in part due to the lactic acid in the yogurt), as well as lower in fat (due to the use of milk instead of cream), it is different from ice milk and conventional soft serve.
For large office or apartment buildings in prime locations, the cost of land may justify multi-storey basement parking garages.
In some configurations, tubed conveyors are used to transport grain to bins located farther from the central leg.
Idell, who resided in Hoboken and managed a produce market at the foot of Barclay Street, New York: The first strawberries marketed in New York were wild ones from Bergen County, N.
A report from the EIU highlights Indonesia as one of the world's major contributors to food waste, with an alarming figure of 300 kg/capita/year.
See also Nef Salt spoon Salt cellar (origami) References External links Medieval and Renaissance Saltcellars Open Salt Collectors website Cracow Saltworks Museum
In Italy, Italian ice or granita seems to have appeared at the same time as ice cream in the second half of the 17th century.
These early "wash-out" and "long-hopper" closets were crafted from a thick, porous ceramic body that required a heavy feldspathic or salt glaze to remain impermeable and functional.
Although the density of HDPE is only marginally higher than that of low-density polyethylene, HDPE has little branching, giving it stronger intermolecular forces and tensile strength (38 MPa versus 21 MPa) than LDPE.
Breads, butter, cheesecakes, eggs, pastries, and pie were the common food stocks kept in a cold pantry.
Preservatives Frozen products do not require any added preservatives because microorganisms do not grow when the temperature of the food is below −9.5 °C (15 °F), which is sufficient on its own in preventing food spoilage.
The garden also has raised beds and fruit trees and is managed and maintained by staff and volunteers.
Neck/mouth/lip The neck, mouth and lip were thrown right side up, through a similar process of expanding a smaller lump of clay which was then thinned out and shaped.
Plastic wrap can prevent food from perishing, extend its shelf-life, and maintain the quality of food.
DuPont de Nemours in Delaware, United States, first produced Dacron (PET fiber) in 1950 and used the trademark Mylar (boPET film) in June 1951 and received registration of it in 1952.
History Juan Guarracino, founder of Freddo ice cream franchise, created and named the flavor in honor to his friend Giuseppe Tramontano.
The tubers can convert approximately 57 cubic decimetres (3,500 cu in) of oxygen per ton per day to CO2 and need ventilation to compensate for this.
With roots dating back to the early history of Poland, it is also observed by expatriate and their descendants Poles in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Sweden and other Polish communities in the world.
Popularity The chilled food sector is one of the fastest growing sectors in the food industry and chilled foods currently represent about 10% of all of the United Kingdom's retail foods by value.
The history of ice cream in the 20th century is one of great change and increases in availability and popularity.
City leaders planned to erect a memorial to the men in Institute Park, adjacent to the Worcester Fire Headquarters station on Grove Street.
In the US, sherbet generally meant an ice milk, but recipes from early soda fountain manuals included ingredients such as gelatin, beaten egg whites, cream, or milk.
Of the three types of potatoes harvested table potatoes, seed potatoes, and processing potatoes, about 60% of P.E.I.
It used several backings from different funds, including Joanna Lumley's support with Marks and Spencers' Spark Something Good Campaign.
Despite initial skepticism by chefs claiming that "gastronomy cannot be standardized", the Gastronorm (GN) format has since gained worldwide recognition and is used by a large majority of equipment manufacturers and users of professional kitchens worldwide.
Most experts, such as Jancis Robinson, recommend that wine be kept at constant temperatures between 50 and 59 °F (10 and 15 °C).
These safety guidelines are intended to reduce the growth of mold and bacteria and the threat of potentially fatal food poisoning.
In the blog Mundane Essays, writer Muness Alrubaiehis researched the origin of the term "salt pig", finding the use of "pig" in Scots and northern English dialect to mean an earthenware vessel.
References External links WebExhibits: Butter French Butter Dishes Archived 2010-01-04 at the Wayback Machine History of French Butter Dish
In 2024, a study by the Union of Concerned Scientists found that between 2018 and 2022 Tyson released 371 million pounds of pollutants, including nitrogen, phosphorus, chloride, oil, and cyanide, from just 41 slaughterhouses and processing plants into local waterways across the United States.
Discovery The bottle was discovered in 1867 during an excavation of a 4th-century AD Roman nobleman's tomb.
A 1994 change in United States Food and Drug Administration rules allowed ice milk to be labeled as "non-fat ice cream", "low-fat ice cream", or "light ice cream" in the United States (depending on its fat content).
Critics countered that the railways would need to dispense about 1.8 billion kulhars a year, which would mean heavy fuel consumption in the kilns with associated pollution.
Kulhars have gradually been replaced by polystyrene and coated paper cups, because the latter are lighter to carry in bulk and cheaper.⁠⁠ Possible origins Kulhars may have been in use in the region for the past 5,000 years, since the Indus Valley Civilisation.
Other less common sizes are: Materials Containers can be made of stainless steel, enameled steel, metal covered with a non-stick surface, synthetic or composite materials, earthenware or porcelain.
Combi steamers: Both commercial and professional combi steamers typically utilize food racks with dimensions corresponding to Gastronorm specifications, most commonly either GN1/1 or GN2/3.
Fish fingers (British English) or fish sticks (American English and Canadian English) are a processed food made using a whitefish, such as cod, hake, haddock, or pollock, which has been battered or breaded and formed into a rectangular shape.
Thatcher's precise role at Lyons is unclear, but she is reported to have worked on the quality of cake and pie fillings as well as ice-cream, and researched saponification.
Very few Betjemann examples survive in complete condition; those that do are generally sold at auction for sums in the thousands of US dollars.
There are also a number of store brand competitors, such as Safeway's Eating Right brand, Easy Meals and Optislim.
It is a dish made with the frozen and mashed fruit of the açaí palm, described as having an "earthy" or creamy taste.
Its headquarters are in Dieppe, New Brunswick and potato processing plants in New Annan, Prince Edward Island, Lethbridge, Alberta, and Jamestown, North Dakota, and an appetizer plant in Wheatley, Ontario.
Description Cellarettes in England and America were custom designed wooden chests to carry, transport and store small numbers of bottled alcoholic beverages.
When incubated in air, LDPE emits methane and ethylene at rates about 2 times and about 76 times, respectively, more than in water.
Ice cream cake is a popular party food, often eaten at birthdays and weddings, particularly in North America and Australia.
Due to the convenience of room service and the minibar, prices charged to the patron are much higher than the hotel's restaurant or tuck shop.
Tee Yee Jia was the first food processing company in Fujian to attain HACCP certification and ISO 9002, as well as the first to receive EU clearance for the export of fishery products to Europe.
The products are distributed across the United States and internationally in Canada, Europe, South America and Israel.
Local craftspeople are finding that youngsters are not interested in learning to craft paan dan since it doesn't pay much as chewing paan is only popular during Ramadan.
A subsidiary of Newell Brands, it is best known for producing food storage containers and trash cans.
Characteristics Frozen noodles have been cited as having advantages over dried noodles, the process tending to make them less sticky, firmer and thicker than their dried counterparts.
In February 2024, Houseplant, a home goods and lifestyle company co-founded by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg, partnered with Cometeer to launch a new line of coffee.
When a jar has cooled and is properly sealed, pressing the dimple on the lid will not make any sound.
Food products labeled as blue raspberry flavor are commonly dyed with a bright blue synthetic food coloring, such as brilliant blue FCF—also called FD&C Blue No.
The square stone game larder at Rydal Hall in Cumbria has a timber upper storey reached by an external staircase.
Milk stored in this area may be more prone to spoiling due to frequent drastic changes in temperature.
Pneumatic conveyors use a moving air-stream to propel grain, and are used in situations when the path of the grain is complex.
Every year during Giant Days, green footsteps are painted on sidewalks throughout downtown Blue Earth, leading to local businesses.
'white night') is a Japanese gelato considered luxurious that is, according to the Guinness Book of World Records, the world's most expensive ice cream that is priced at ¥873,400 ($6,696) for a single 130 mL (4.4 ounce) serving.
A drink can (or beverage can) is a metal container with a polymer interior designed to hold a fixed portion of liquid such as carbonated soft drinks, alcoholic drinks, fruit juices, teas, herbal teas, energy drinks, etc.
Eventually, a hogshead of wine came to be 52.5 imperial gallons (238.669725 L) (or 63 US gallons), while a hogshead of beer or ale came to be 54 gallons (249.54221 L with the pre-1824 beer and ale gallon, or 245.48886 L with the imperial gallon).
Gelato The gelato is exclusively produced by the Japan-based company Cellato, which sources its ingredients privately.
Because the climate of Egypt is very dry, grain could be stored in pits for a long time without discernible loss of quality.
Ideally, most frozen foods should be defrosted in a refrigerator to avoid significant growth of pathogens.
Opening bottles with traditional openers may damage the crown caps, thus some collectors use automatic bottle openers to avoid any substantial damage to the crown caps.
During the Mughal period, this mixture was flavoured with pistachios and saffron, packed into metal cones and immersed in slurry ice, resulting in the invention of kulfi.
Pollution Plastic sachets are a major contributor to litter and pollution, especially in low-income countries where many more household goods are sold in sachets in small quantities.
The jar lid has a rubber or rubber-like sealing surface and is held in place by a separate metal band.
In Australia, these sacks, made of Indian jute, were known traditionally as "hessian sacks", "hessian bags" or "sugar bags".
History The Tetra Brik package was introduced in 1963, after a long process of development and built on the previous Tetra Classic tetrahedron package that laid the foundation for Tetra Pak.
Characteristics In the U.S., the Food and Drug Administration requires any product marketed as frozen custard to contain at least 10 percent milkfat and 1.4 percent egg yolk solids.
In the late 1920s, "spot crowns" were invented that placed vinyl or aluminum foil underneath the cap to protect the liquid product from spoiling on contact with the cork or metal, for certain types of drinks.
A panchuker consists of a sausage covered with a waffle-like pastry, and has a stick in it (like a corn dog) so that it can be easily consumed.
Although manipulations to the food items and distribution of macronutrients to help boost the amount of kilocalories per MRE have been made, more studies are showing many service members still do not meet today's standards of daily consumption, often trading and discarding portions of the ration.
Passive wine cellars must be located in naturally cool and damp areas with minor seasonal and diurnal temperature variations, for example, a basement in a temperate climate.
The purpose of this labor-intensive process is the maintenance of a reliable style and quality of the beverage over time.
Nalgene is a brand of plastic products developed originally for laboratory use, including items such as jars, bottles, test tubes, and Petri dishes, that were shatterproof and lighter than glass.
More expensive wines and carbonated varieties continued to use cork, although much closer attention was paid to the quality.
By 2020 all locations had closed, with the Boston location closing due to a downturn in business due to COVID-19.
Other uses include being used to keep medical supplies at proper temperatures in remote locations, and being used to temporarily store game at hunting camps.
are "manufactured into French fries, potato chips, and many other products." By 2020, about 80 P.E.I.
In 2006, Hands on Tzedakah, a public charity based in Boca Raton, Florida, approached Leket Israel to create a program to provide school children with a minimum of one healthy meal per day.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Kathy, Saporito.
There are numerous diseases that humans may contract from endogenously infected meat, such as anthrax, bovine tuberculosis, brucellosis, salmonellosis, listeriosis, trichinosis or taeniasis.
In the late 1950s Stouffer began to diversify their restaurant operations, with locations that ranged from cafeterias to casual dining to premium casual and destination restaurants.
A wineskin is an ancient type of bottle made of leathered animal skin, usually from goats or sheep, used to store or transport wine.
History In November 2006, private equity fund Permira acquired the BirdsEye and Iglo businesses from Unilever for €1.7bn, forming the BirdsEye Iglo Group.
The following periods, the Pueblo Eras, saw the introduction of above-ground, multi-roomed masonry dwellings, more efficient stone tools, garments made of cotton or turkey feathers, and the introduction of the ceremonial kiva.
Origins The tradition of food blessing at Easter, which has early-medieval roots in Christian society.
Fans Supporting Foodbanks’ purple van (a mix of the two clubs' colours) is used to transport food donations from across the city and can be found outside Anfield and Goodison on matchdays.
In 1950, Aladdin Industries created the first children's lunch box based on a television show, Hopalong Cassidy.
Before churning (into butter) the milk thus soured is poured into the proper churning bag ("agiwir", "tanwart") which is inflated and shaken".
Kakigōri: Japanese shaved ice Tshuah-ping: Taiwanese shaved ice Halo-halo: Filipino shaved ice Es campur and Es teler: Indonesian shaved ice Namkhaeng sai and O-aew: Thai shaved ice Ais Kacang (ABC, Ice Kacang): Malaysian/Singaporean shaved ice Grattachecca: Italian shaved ice popular in Rome.
Optimum storage of sweet potatoes occurs at 12–16 °C (54–61 °F) and 85–90% relative humidity (RH) and requires proper ventilation to remove excess carbon dioxide (CO2) and bring in oxygen (O2) for respiration.
Likely as a result of this and the 1990s economic recession, sales began to decline, and production on the meals ceased in 1993.
The Coolest Cooler was a multi-function cooler that was initially funded through the crowdfunding website Kickstarter.
Led by MK Uri Maklev with support from MKs Eli Elalouf, Moshe Gafni, Yechiel 'Hilik' Bar, Orly Levi Abekasis, Shuli Mualem and Mordechai Yogev, in cooperation with Leket Israel.
Other early milk jars during this time include the Mackworth "Pure Jersey Cream" crockery jar, the Manorfield Stock Farm jar, the Manor, and the Pennsylvania wide-mouth jar.
History Benjamin Eisenstadt invented a machine that produced the modern sugar packet after a failed endeavor to package and sell tea bags, later packaging other items, including sauces.
The clerk, also known as warden of the hanaper, was paid fees and other moneys for the sealing of charters, patents, writs, etc., and from which issued certain writs under the great seal.
A cold pantry was the perfect place to keep food stocks that did not necessarily need to be kept refrigerated.
from growers who have produced too much or whose food is not sufficiently visually appealing; from manufacturers who overproduced; or from retailers who over-ordered.
Protected bottle shape Within the European Union, the Bocksbeutel enjoys the status of a protected bottle shape.
For example, Master Chef is the brand for its crepe pastry, while Ryushobo is the brand for its Japanese ramen.
Early jars embossed with "Mason's Patent November 28th 1858" that date from the late 1850s to early 1860s closely match the illustrations of Mason's 1858 patents.
Escoffier himself is quoted as saying, "Any variation on this recipe ruins the delicate balance of its taste." Pijama Peach Melba is claimed to be the ancestor of the pijama, a dessert in Catalan cuisine.
Ice collection and distribution Underground pits with the constant underground temperature of 12 °C (54 °F) had been used since Roman times to help preserve ice collected during winter.
Solar-powered refrigerators are able to keep perishable goods such as meat and dairy cool in hot climates and are used to keep vaccines at their appropriate temperature to avoid spoilage.
Folding cartons are usually combined into a tube at the manufacturer and shipped flat (knocked down) to the packager.
The slow cooking caramelises the sugar in the mixture and browns its milk proteins, giving kulfi its distinctive taste.
The William Jackson Group's frozen Yorkshire puddings were originally created for Butlins Holiday Camps in 1974.
The coated cotton is then covered with wax paper and ironed; alternatively the fabric is placed on a baking tray and placed in an oven.
Both of these calculators are available for use on the official Health Star Rating website and are accessible to anyone.
Glass milk bottles have traditionally been reusable while light-weight plastic bottles are designed for single trips and plastic recycling.
Some slushies have additives to make the freezing temperature of the mix lower, so that the drink can be served much colder than a water slush drink.
Insulated Nylon-fabric cases for Nalgene 1-litre bottles; features include stable attachment points and, in most cases, nesting for a cup.
Usage A screw closure is a mechanical device which is screwed on and off of a "finish" on a container.
Weaving strips of bark or other plant material to support the bark containers would be the next step, followed by entirely woven baskets.
Optical properties PP can be made translucent when uncolored but is not as readily made transparent as polystyrene, acrylic, or certain other plastics.
Another technique developed by soldiers in the field is putting the package in the grill covering the exhaust on many armoured vehicles, and on radiators of wheeled vehicles.
Varieties The meals were originally released with eight variations, with several other entries being introduced in later years.
This style linerless mechanism is available in popular dispensing caps and has the advantage of being simpler & cheaper to manufacture.
In connection with wine auctioneer Stephen Ranger, Iron Gate runs wine auctions and other related events.
Microwave popcorn is a convenience food consisting of unpopped popcorn in an enhanced, sealed paper bag intended to be heated in a microwave oven.
Thermoelectric coolers use direct current power rather than refrigerant gas and a compressor and have no moving parts or complex assemblies.
Designs A makeshift cache can be made by hanging the food from a tree branch using rope, called a bear bag.
The first step in bottling beer is depalletising, where the empty bottles are removed from the original pallet packaging delivered from the manufacturer, so that individual bottles may be handled.
Another popular campaign in the 1970s was for Birds Eye Beefburgers, which was one of the first to feature regional dialects (i.e.
There are a number of myths, unsupported by any known evidence, that attribute the origins of sorbet to historical figures like the Roman Emperor Nero, Marco Polo, and the Italian duchess and French queen Catherine de' Medici.
Because of the uneven topography of the island and its "relatively small and non-contiguous watersheds", "pumping groundwater has ...
In Australia, a bonbonniere is a party favor given out at weddings, first holy communions and the like.
1973 – The first Swanson "Hungry-Man" dinners were marketed; these contained larger portions of its regular dinners.
With increasing industrialization resulting in Americans working outside the home in factories, it became unfeasible to go home to lunch every day, thus it was necessary to have something to protect and transport a meal.
They introduced Nobó commercially through local farmer’s markets before making the transition to major stores at the start of 2014.
History Ice cream Tutti frutti ice cream has been served for at least 165 years, as it appeared on the bill of fare for an 1860 dinner in England.
Screw caps and synthetic corks, however, are thought to be prone to another aroma taint: sulphidisation.
Following complaints, the fair's general manager announced the vendor would not be allowed to sell Dragon's Breath at the next year's event.
Food packaging is often necessary, or even essential, for protecting food, keeping it safe, and thus preventing substantial food losses.
Another type was a permanent piece of furniture built on a stand with a sliding shelf to hold glasses and a drawer for serving paraphernalia.
Large amounts were spent on development, and in 1963 the first Tetra Brik packaging machine was installed in Motala in central Sweden.
In the Taishō era (1912–1926), the aluminium bento box became a luxury item because of its ease of cleaning and its silver-like appearance.
It is owned by Nomad Foods Europe, which also owns the rights to the Birds Eye brand in the United Kingdom and Ireland, and Findus across Europe.
International operations Adolf Ho Ping-yau, managing director for the Campbell Soup Company in Hong Kong, introduced the Swanson brand to Hong Kong in 1987.
The University of York is establishing a web site with on-line resources for investigating art history in the period 1660–1735.
They do draw a significant amount of power, however, and can drain a non-running car's battery so much so that it cannot start.
Unilever acquired Nestle's stake in the joint venture in 1985, giving it full ownership of the Findus brand in Italy.
As food production is resource-intensive, food losses are accompanied by other environmental impacts, such as deforestation, water and air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 Prlewe, J.
Packaging of fast food and take-out food involves a significant amount of material that ends up in landfill, recycling, composting or litter.
The weaving knowledge is passed down from the parents and grandparents, although this has become less common.
One issue is that the top of the can is made from a blend of aluminum and magnesium to increase its strength.
Celebrities can also be featured on collectible cans; such was the case of tennis player Andre Agassi, who had a set of four Pepsi Max soda cans dedicated to him in 1996.
Fox, Kiefer Sutherland, Tim Robbins and Rick Moranis, and a Boston Bruins Alumni Team, coached by Bobby Orr and including Phil Esposito, Johnny Bucyk, Derek Sanderson and Cam Neely.
As the group is the largest recipient in France, export aid from the European Union was decided in the context of the CAP in the amount of 200 to 300 euros per ton of exported poultry (which accounted for 63 million Public aid from October 2007 to October 2008).
When returned for re-use, as in some EU countries, the propensity of PET to absorb flavors makes it necessary to conduct a "sniffer test" on some returned bottles to avoid cross-contamination of flavors.
A volume insert attaches to the inside of a mould, creating a circular indentation on the side of the finished bottle.
2001–present In 2003 Tupperware closed down operations in the UK and Ireland, citing customer dissatisfaction with their direct sales model.
Micro-grants for community development were awarded to help solve social problems in villages and small towns.
The Buster Meat Market, located at about 250 Main Avenue, was another stone building that also was NRHP-listed in 1980, and also no longer exists.
Louis, Missouri, where he opened Ted Drewes in 1930 and expanded to a second location in 1931 and three stores in that city by 1941.
In addition to food protection and preservation, plastic wrap can also reduce food waste, tag food information, ease the distribution processes, and increase product visibility and microwavability.
Food franchises Potato Corner and Papa John's also offer tater tots in select locations, though in the latter case these are branded as "Potato Tots".
In the mid-1990s, NASA JSC began work on a solar-powered refrigerator that used phase change material rather than battery to store thermal energy rather than chemical energy.
In addition to the Paper Cup Company, a number of other organisations have been providing disposable consumer products for several years, including the Dickenson Robinson Group, and Benders in the United Kingdom, the Italian manufacturer Seda and the Finland-based company Huhtamaki.
Brands and products Spring Home Spring Home is the flagship brand of Tee Yih Jia and is used to market frozen ready-to-eat Asian convenience foods such as: Spring roll pastry (Plain) – sizes: 10" (250mm) sq, 8.5" (215mm) sq, 8" (200mm)sq, 7.5" (190mm)sq, 6" (150mm) sq, & 5" (125mm)sq.
Ancient Greece Besides coarse amphorae used for storage and transport, the vast majority, high-quality painted amphorae were produced in Ancient Greece in significant numbers for a variety of social and ceremonial purposes.
The material was also used to manufacture aprons and protective sleeves to protect factory workers from hazardous substances.
On August 15, 2017, the registrar at National Day Calendar proclaimed National Mason Jar Day to be observed annually as a national holiday on November 30, beginning in 2017.
Journalist Ash Sarkar wrote in The Guardian: "This endeavour shows that football doesn't have to be the domain of racists and Islamophobes, and that mosques aren't some culturally alien and terrifying enclave.
In 1893 it was called the "largest cold storage house in the State of Wisconsin." The building is situated at the junction of the Menomonee River and Milwaukee River at 100 S.
Bento can be elaborately arranged in styles called kyaraben ("character bento", typically decorated to look like popular characters from anime, manga, or video games) or oekakiben ("picture bento", decorated to look like people, animals, buildings and monuments, or items such as flowers and plants).
Food insecure individuals living in low-income communities experience higher rates of chronic disease, leading to healthcare costs which create more financial hardships.
A tutti frutti ice cream recipe was included in the 1874 cookbook Common Sense in the Household: A Manual of Practical Housewifery This recipe calls for actual tutti frutti and is not fancifully named.
Environmental Advisory Committee meeting to draft a Water Act, Leo Broderick with the Council of Canadians said that the Island needs to "legislate a ban on deep well irrigation to prevent long-term groundwater depletion".
Pasteurized or UHT treated products packed into this format can be "shelf-stable", requiring no refrigeration.
The Individual Meal Pack or IMP (French: repas individuel de combat) is one type of field ration used by the Canadian Forces.
Products The main ingredients used in Nobó ice cream include avocado, coconut milk and honey as a natural sweetener.
Recent technological progression has led to the development of techniques targeted to prevent the activity and growth of food contaminating microbes.
The cellular wall consists of a thin, lignin-rich middle lamella (internal primary wall), a thick secondary wall made up from alternating suberin and wax lamella, and a thin tertiary wall of polysaccharides.
Due to the properties that wrought iron has, wine racks that are made of this material are the most surprising and innovative in shape and design and as a result, they are often used more for decorative purposes than for storing wine.
At his wife's urging, he began a fishing business in 1874 which was known as Slade Gorton & Company, and began to pack and sell salt codfish and mackerel in small kegs.
The ollas comunes are developed in different ways: collecting food among the neighbors or through collections of money in chapels, parishes and neighborhood associations to buy food.
Frozen custard is a frozen dessert that is a type of ice cream made with egg yolks in addition to cream and sweetener (either sugar or an alternative), and an additional flavoring such as cocoa, vanilla, or fruit such as strawberries or peaches.
Silo art "Silo art" is a recent and distinctly Australian art movement involving silos being decorated with huge mural-type paintings covering a wide range of themes.
The majority of the Hoosier cabinets are about 48 inches (120 cm) wide by 22 inches (56 cm) deep by 72 inches (180 cm) high.
The first recipe in French for flavored ices appears in 1674, in Nicholas Lemery's Recueil de curiositéz rares et nouvelles de plus admirables effets de la nature.
The converse of oxidation is reduction, and it has been suggested that screwcapped wine leads to increased reduced characters if the underlying chemistry of the wine is reductive.
By 2019, Indian River Farms had seven large holding ponds near Spring Valley and were building more.
To enhance the sealing formation, infrared absorbing materials are usually added between the two materials to be sealed.
Successful strategies to combat food waste require widespread socialization, educational initiatives, and a concerted public movement.
These frozen food products include roti canai, pau, pizza, donuts, murtabak, crispy finger foods and steam buns.
Firing Earthenware can be produced at firing temperatures as low as 600 °C (1,112 °F) and many clays will not fire successfully above about 1,000 °C (1,830 °F).
Applications Uses for boPET polyester films include, but are not limited to: Flexible packaging and food contact Laminates containing metallized boPET foil (in technical language called printin or laminate web substrate) protect food against oxidation and aroma loss, achieving long shelf life.
All these fragments except the one kept by Hourelle which was lost were gathered on 25 May 1825 by the Archbishop of Reims.
Nearly a century old, the interior walls had been progressively covered with various forms of insulating materials, including cork impregnated with tar, polystyrene foam, and polyurethane foam, to a thickness of 18 inches.
The jar is part of the Herbert Pickering Lewis Collection of Mexican Pottery at the Art Institute of Chicago and has been included in a handful of exhibitions.
In the early 2000s only Henry Tasaka, who was retired from the shop, and his two daughters, Gail and Cindy Tasaka, who took over the family business, knew the recipe.
This method will keep butter for around a month provided it is kept at temperatures below 80 °F (27 °C) and the water is changed regularly.
The pizza saver is not reused and is typically discarded by the patron, although some people have found secondary uses for them such as egg holders when turned upside down.
available resources There are buildings owned throughout the world that serve as bishops' storehouses.
For applications that place higher demands on the bung in terms of temperature and mechanical stability or solvent resistance, standardized glass stoppers and connectors are preferred.
The company continued to build on the initial success of its flagship products and extended its product range to include other Asian ready-to-eat products.
In some parishes, the baskets are lined up on long tables; in others, parishioners process to the front of the altar carrying their baskets, as if in a Communion line.
For the occasion, Escoffier presented Nellie with a dessert of fresh peaches served over vanilla ice cream in a silver dish perched atop an ice sculpture of a swan, which is featured in the opera.
The muselet often has a metal cap incorporated in the design which may show the drink maker's emblem.
The services provided by food banks vary from area to area as they react to the needs of their community to provide help and support to local people in crisis.
Mary's Food Bank Alliance – Food Bank in Phoenix, Arizona United Food Bank - Food Bank in Mesa, Arizona Arkansas Arkansas Foodbank – U.S.
Whisk 2 tablespoons of flour into half a liter of milk or a cup of sour cream, add a pinch of cinnamon, and vanilla sugar.
Most baleen baskets are made by men for sale to tourists, but over time distinctive styles have developed, and since the 1970s more women have become involved in what was originally a predominantly male occupation.
Basketmaker eras In the Early Basketmaker II Era people lived a semi-nomadic hunter-gatherer lifestyle with the introduction of cultivation of corn, which led to a more settled, agrarian life.
Modern frozen vegetables with the flash freezing technique was popularized by Clarence Birdseye in 1929.
Uno Pizzeria & Grill (formerly Pizzeria Uno and Uno Chicago Grill), or more informally as Uno’s, is a United States-origin franchised pizzeria restaurant chain under the parent company Uno Restaurant Holdings Corporation.
However, Alexis Lichine contends that low humidity can still be detrimental to premium wine quality due to the risk of the cork drying out.
In 2006, Nestlé sold the Libby's trademark to a Swiss entity that became known as "Libby Brand Holding".
Free–standing kitchen cabinets began declining in popularity by 1930, and Hoosier Manufacturing responded by making kitchen cabinets that were meant to be built-in to the home.
Opening cans The first cans were heavy-weight containers that required considerable force to open, with instructions directing to use a hammer and chisel; during the war of 1812, British soldiers resorted to bayonets and knives to get them open.
Paperboard-based cartons are lighter compared to a similarly sized steel can, but are harder to recycle.
He created frames of interlocking strips of cardboard, and packed these frames in cardboard or wooden boxes for transport by road or rail.
Product developers watched consumers operate the traditional ketchup packet through one-way mirrors to evaluate new ketchup packaging designs.
However, Youn returned to work on "The Prince Who Wanted Everything", although it was a "one-off gig", and he subsequently took a job working on Over the Garden Wall.
Products Pepperidge Farm products include Goldfish crackers, varieties of bread, and several lines of cookies.
During the bottling process, most wineries strive to have an initial ullage level of between 0.2–0.4 inches (5–10mm).
Iglo is a frozen food brand based in the United Kingdom, with products sold across the European continent.
Brands Vinotemp currently owns the brands Epicureanist, Element, Wine-Mate, Cellartec, Apex (a high-end wine rack manufacturer that Vinotemp purchased in 2010), and Sonoma Wine Hardware.
(A 1922 Model-T Ford cost about $476.) By 1923, Kelvinator held 80 percent of the market for electric refrigerators.
Such vaccines must be kept within a specified temperature range, typically 2 to 8 °C (36 to 46 °F), from manufacture to use.
Franconia is well distant from the Low German-speaking lands, and a term like Booksbüdel would not normally have been understood there.
Regional variations may differ slightly in sweetness, taro intensity, and shape, but the basic preparation method remains consistent.
Newcastle Production, owners of the factory, entered in the administration with Zolfo Cooper on 12 January, leading to 359 redundancies.
Candles were also dispensed from the buttery, as was beer, to those lower members of the household not entitled to drink wine.
The Valley "The Valley of the Jolly Green Giant" refers to the Minnesota River valley around Le Sueur.
Tee Yih Jia Food Manufacturing Pte Ltd (simplified Chinese: 第一家), is a food manufacturing company headquartered in Singapore.
In early 2012 the design students Thomas Gerling and Christian Zehnter, and television journalist Ines Rainer, independently came up with a similar idea.
and there is a house in which are kept more than 100,000 dried birds, for from their feathers articles of clothing are made.
In 2018, the charity won the Westpac Business Champions Supreme Award for Small Enterprises for "community impact" and the Christchurch City Council Business For Good award.
Many modern non-carbonated slushy machines use a spiral-shaped plastic dasher to scrape crystals off a freezing cylinder, often integrated into a clear hopper.
Preparation The bombe mold is lined with ice cream and filled with a mixture that called pâte à bombe so the ice cream forms the outer shell of the dessert.
The amount of sugar substitute in a packet generally differs from the volume and weight of sugar in a packet.
Juice boxes are most popular with children, although other uses include emergency drinking water, milk, and wine.
Thicker sheets could be produced by laminating the product, combining several sheets with the use of rubber cement.
The Health Star Rating System (HSR) is an Australian and New Zealand Government initiative that assigns health ratings to packaged foods and beverages.
Iron Gate Private Wine Management is a Canadian wine storage, wine auction and collector services company which operates a 150,000-bottle subterranean storage facility and sells wine for their collector clients.
The company's initial stated intention at the time of the bankruptcy filing was to convert $142 million of Senior Secured Notes due 2011 into the new equity of the company after emergence from Chapter 11.
In contrast, passive wine cellars are not climate-controlled, and are usually built underground to reduce temperature swings.
'ice water'), sometimes written as bingsoo, is a milk-based Korean shaved ice dessert with sweet toppings that may include chopped fruit, condensed milk, fruit syrup, tteok, and red beans.
A minibar is a small refrigerator, typically an absorption refrigerator, in a hotel room or cruise ship stateroom.
A special flat-top square milk jug was recently developed to maximize shipping and storing efficiency but had some difficulties in dispensing.
Health concerns The introduction of cask wine in the late 1960s has had significant negative consequences.
The Romans had the salinum, a receptacle typically of silver and regarded as essential in every household.
The ice should be ground finely enough so that it immediately melts in one’s mouth and does not have to be chewed with the teeth.
Fruits used for tutti frutti ice cream include cherries, watermelon, raisins, and pineapple, often augmented with nuts.
In addition, in 2013 the American Library Association presented Bol and Brooks the Movers and Shakers award.
An ice cream sandwich is a frozen dessert consisting of ice cream between two biscuits, wafers, soft cookies, or other baked goods.
Freeze-dried ingredients take so little time to rehydrate that they can often be eaten without cooking them first and have a texture similar to a crunchy chip.
He described the distinct contents of a bento box as a multitude of fragments or ornaments that are combined to beautify each other.
Other chains serving frozen custard include Ted Drewes (based in Saint Louis, Missouri), Rita's Italian Ice (a suburb of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania), The Meadows, and Abbott's (Rochester, New York).
One of the largest sectors is the chilled recipe dish sector, which has grown from an estimated £173 million in 1988 to over £1,750 million in 2005.
Using polarized optical microscopy (POM), the PLLA biocomposites had smaller spherulites compared to pure PLLA, indicating improved nucleation density and also contributing to an increase of elongation at break from 6% in pure PLLA to 140-190% in the biocomposites.
The current form of the retort pouch was invented by the United States Army Natick Soldier Research, Development and Engineering Center, Reynolds Metals Company, and Continental Flexible Packaging, who jointly received the Food Technology Industrial Achievement Award for its invention in 1978.
A master salt is the large receptacle from which the smaller, distributed, salt dishes are filled; according to fashion or custom it was lidded, or open, or covered with a cloth.
After bankruptcy, during fiscal 2011, Uno Restaurant Holdings Corp became controlled by Twin Haven Capital Partners.
(doing business as Ramly) is a Malaysian frozen and fast food company founded by Ramly bin Mokni through Pemasaran Ramly Mokni Sdn.
History Icebox pies were originally kept cool in an icebox, used to store perishables when most farming households in the United States had neither electricity nor refrigeration.
A foam food container is a form of disposable food packaging for various foods and beverages, such as processed instant noodles, raw meat from supermarkets, ice cream from ice cream parlors, cooked food from delicatessens or food stalls, or beverages like "coffee to go".
Other types of Spanish ceramics that are sometimes called "olive jars", and sometimes "Spanish storage jars" include the cantimplora, tinaja, and orza.
He invented the "Dexter System of Cold Storage" which pushed air over ice to create a refrigeration system.
In 2003, The Rayware Group purchased the Ravenhead name, including Kilner jar (a subsidiary of Ravenhead) and continues to produce them today in China.
After he patented the crown cork in 1892, which was an immediate success, he started a new company, Crown Cork & Seal Company (now Crown Holdings) which went on to become one of the largest manufacturing companies in the United States producing billions of caps annually.
Regular shipments of frozen meat from Australia and New Zealand to Europe began in 1881, with a consignment of frozen New Zealand sheep exported to London on board the Dunedin.
Faloodeh Shirazi (Persian: فالوده شیرازی, romanized: fālūde Shirāzi), a version from the city of Shiraz, is particularly well-known.
Furthermore, there is the screwcap's public image, as "consumers still perceive screwcaps as being for 'cheap' wines (regardless of the price tag)".
Another necessary fixture described by Victorian architect Robert Kerr is a dresser topped with slate or marble for meat preparation.
An extremely tight fit between the pieces must be accomplished to prevent leakage; the process of accomplishing this radically deforms the rims of the parts.
Vegetables could be brought up from the root cellar in smaller amounts and stored in the cold pantry until ready to use.
Sometimes other types of bag, such as a cloth bag for toiletries fitted with a conventional zip fastener, are described as zipper bags.
Sponsorships Findus were previously sponsors of the former 2nd tier of British ice hockey the British National League.
In recycling facilities, steel cans may be readily separated from other waste using magnetic equipment including cross-belt separators, also known as overband magnets, and drum magnets.
In countries with a focus on marketing through parties (such as Germany, Australia, and New Zealand), Tupperware's market share and profitability continue to decline.
Some newer minibars use infrared or other automated methods of recording purchases, detecting the removal of an item and automatically charge the guest's credit card right away, even if the item is not consumed.
As well as high temperatures (PET decomposes above 300 °C or 570 °F) and long barrel residence times, high pressures and high extruder speeds (which cause shear raising the temperature), can also contribute to the production of acetaldehyde.
The most efficient is the chest-style freezer, as its top-opening design minimizes convection when opening the doors, reducing the amount of warm moist air entering the freezer.
Cryogenic freezing is widely used as it is a method for rapid freezing, requires almost no dehydration, excludes oxygen thus decreasing oxidative spoilage, and causes less damage to individual freezing pieces.
He subsequently re-engineered a cooler with a car stereo to bring to an Independence Day beach party for friends.
Environmentally friendly The Scandinavian state institutions Systembolaget and Vinmonopolet analyzed the environmental impact of various wine packaging in 2010.
The United States Armed Forces used Pliofilm to waterproof firearms during World War II amphibious landings.
Other regional names include cindua (Minangkabau, West Sumatra) and cindolo (Bugis, South Sulawesi).
The company was founded by Jeno Paulucci in Duluth, Minnesota, and is now owned by Charoen Pokphand Foods Public Company Limited of Thailand.
A hotel may also charge a "personal use" fee if the guest uses the minibar to store their own items.
The flagship product contains Ore-Ida cubed potatoes, Oscar Mayer breakfast meat, and Kraft cheddar cheese in a bowl, onto which one cracks an egg, stirs, and prepares it in the microwave to create a scrambled egg meal.
History Egg yolks have been integrated into ice creams since at least the 1690s, though there are several notable invention stories that are associated with modern commercializations of this practice.
There were 16 different bombes in the collection of recipes, many with geographic names like Alhambra, Muscovite and Cleopatre.
In 2014, in honor of the 35th anniversary of the Green Giant statue's installation on its base, Paul Hedberg was asked to serve as Grand Marshal of the parade that culminates the festivities.
Three IMPs (breakfast, lunch and dinner) provide approximately 3,600 calories (15 MJ), enough to nourish a soldier undergoing strenuous physical activity.
Created in 2003 by Eric LeVine, a former Microsoft program manager, CellarTracker has grown to be one of the world's most comprehensive wine databases.
The specific paan dan that was used by Wajid was later given to Queen Mary during the Delhi Coronation Durbar and Indian tour of 1911-1912, then presented to the Britmuseum in 1912.
However, over time the majority of people have quit chewing betel leaf, so artisans are having a tougher time economically.
In contrast to dumpster diving, which is about taking non-spoiled food from waste containers, foodsaving.de wants to prevent food from being thrown away in the first place.
The company also asserts that their products are low in sodium, fat, and saturated fats, have 0 grams of trans fat, and contain fewer than 400 calories.
Until the 1920s in America, frozen salads were consumed by the few who could afford expensive restaurant visits or large home refrigeration systems.
L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 External links Media related to Bottling plants at Wikimedia Commons Liquid Filling Lines
At the same time, in central Italy, the so-called Spello amphorae, small containers, were produced for the transportation of wine.
The pyramids were built in northern Nigerian cities such as Kano, where groundnut production was a key part of the economy.
Eventually, as Neoclassicism gave way to the more ostentatious Empire style, cellarettes became heavier and more ornate, emphasizing Roman and Grecian motifs.
It wasn't until August 2008, however - when China's Anti-Monopoly Law came into effect - that Greatview was able to grow and turn the aseptic packaging industry into a new playing field.
Retort pouch Retort pouches involve heat processing the food in sterilized heat-stable flexible packages.
Wafer ice cream evolved from the older 'ice potong' type, which is a rectangular prism of ice cream mounted on a wooden stick.
In 1992, the company was back in Chapter 11 bankruptcy after incurring a $1.4 million loss on sales of $4.8 million; an accounting scandal involving inventory overstatements at Peltz Food, a subsidiary headed by Robert Peltz, were at the root of much of the problem.
The program was introduced as a trial on certain hog farms, and was the first major program of its kind to apply penalties to producers for noncompliance.
It would be easier to name the types of human activity that zoning laws don't restrict than to list all those they regulate.
Prince Edward Island is known for its potatoes—the potato industry employs—directly or indirectly— about 12% of the province's workforce, and contributes over $1 billion annually to the P.E.I.
The temperature of the soil is held relatively constant year-round when taken below the frost line, located 0.9 to 1.5 m (3 to 5 ft) below the surface, and varies from about 7 and 21 °C (45 and 70 °F) depending on the region.
In a separate interview, they also stated that the design will help reduce losing lids and make their tins easier to grasp.
In Spanish it is known as "bota", a word used by Miguel de Cervantes in his early 17th century novel Don Quixote.
According to Glutto Digest, Dragon's Breath was originally invented and served at a “minibar” by José Andrés in 2008.
External links Rotatable 3-D view of botija Report on olive jars (botijas and orzas) found in a 1622 Spanish shipwreck in the Straits of Florida
Sugar (beet or cane) provides 15–17% of the yogurt ingredients; in addition to adding sweetness, it increases the volume of solid ingredients, improving body and texture.
It was purchased by CDB Realty Trust, controlled by Ding On "Tony" Kwan and his wife Shu May Kwan, in 1987.
Campers are also more likely to inadvertently leave food scraps around the fire pit, which could attract animals.
A hogshead (abbreviated "hhd", plural "hhds") is a large cask of liquid (or, less often, of a food commercial product) for manufacturing and sale.
Morton Frozen Foods is the brand name of a now-discontinued line of frozen foods, including honey buns, jelly donuts, and pot pies, that was distributed nationwide in the United States for almost 50 years.
Though the name comes from the Italian cassata, the dessert itself has little to do with Italian cassata, and usually consists of two thick biscuits holding a block of vanilla and chocolate-flavoured ice cream.
If a further descriptor is needed to avoid confusion between the two, the New Zealand standard hot dog can be described as a hot dog on a stick.
The issue of food waste in Indonesia Food loss and waste (FLW) have emerged as key targets for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030.
Health issues According to American Cancer society the use of polystyrene is safe for food services.
Ice kenkey is produced by breaking kenkey into pieces, milling it, and then mixed with water, sugar, powdered milk, and ice.
Some newer formulations use a Thermite-like reaction between a more reactive metal powder such as aluminum or magnesium, with a less reactive metal oxide such as iron oxide or silicon dioxide.
The retail operation was at #53 King Street West, between John Hales' butcher shop and Bright's Opera House; it would later house Percy Parliament's clothing store.
Meshram from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee invented kodo millet (Paspalum scrobiculatum)-based edible cups as a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to traditional plastic cups and bowls to reduce plastic waste.
List of Pepperidge Farm products Examples of Pepperidge Farm products include: See also List of bakeries List of brand name breads References External links Official website
All ancient Greek and ancient Roman pottery is earthenware, as is the Hispano-Moresque ware of the late Middle Ages, which developed into tin-glazed pottery or faience traditions in several parts of Europe, mostly notably the painted maiolica of the Italian Renaissance, and Dutch Delftware.
It then moved to Wailuku for a year, before returning to Kahului to the former Kahului Shopping Center for a couple of decades.
The Whiteman brothers produced milk bottles based on these specifications at the Warren Glass Works Company in Cumberland, Maryland, and sold them through their New York sales office.
The Friedlaender hydria This 6th century black-figure hydria is decorated with multiple mythological reliefs.
It was found that incubation with the beeswax wrap led to a decline in the number of both cells and a decline in bacterial activity.
Ice was then adapted for use in desserts such as lot chong, Thai cantaloupe cake, sarim, thapthim krop, taro, and namkhaeng sai.
History Beginnings and industrialization: 1930 - 1970 In 1933, Pierre Doux started his poultry business in Nantes (France) in 1933.
The system proved to be "impossible to commission successfully" and so McCain sued for compensation.
If the pads are pre-moistened to add weight to the package, it may be considered to be a form of weight fraud.
As dishes grew less recognizable as salads, lettuce leaves were employed to justify the categorization.
A handled punnet became more popular in the New York market, as related in the Proceedings of the New Jersey Horticultural Society by Charles W.
Above all, China, where beverage bottles made from HDPE were first imported in 2005, is a growing market for rigid HDPE packaging as a result of its improving standard of living.
A storage warehouse reduces the land available to grow grapes, impacts open space and natural habitats, and precludes other land uses.
These early cans did not have a pull tab, being equipped instead with a crown cork (metal bottle cap).
The origins of kakigōri date back to the Heian period in Japanese history, when blocks of ice saved during the colder months would be shaved and served with sweet syrup to the Japanese aristocracy during the summer.
Drain lids and lids with cut-outs such that a serving utensil can be placed into the container are common accessories.
Investors The company has raised over $100M from investors, including founders of tech companies and institutional investors.
Olive jars are commonly found in archaeological sites throughout the former Spanish Empire, including shipwrecks, and have also been found at sites that were never under Spanish control.
The P-38 can opener, identical to the one described in Popular Mechanics except for having its lanyard hole on the opposite end of its body, was adopted by the United States Armed Forces in 1942 and issued in canned field rations from World War II to the 1980s.
Liquid level machines fill bottles so they appear to be filled to the same line on every bottle, while volumetric filling machines fill each bottle with exactly the same amount of liquid.
The slush machine stirs or rotates the mixture at a constant speed so that the sugar and water molecules bond together before the water gets a chance to freeze.
Food and Drug Administration created a standard of identity for mellorine as part of its efforts to encourage new product innovation and nutrition information labeling.
Other studies have shown a clear correlation between dioxin formation and chloride content and indicate that PVC is a significant contributor to the formation of both dioxin and PCB in incinerators.
military had several different types of rations used to feed service members in the rear or out of combat.
To quantify the barrier properties of a packaging system, both oxygen and water vapor permeation are commonly assessed by measuring the oxygen transmission rate (OTR) and water vapor transmission rate (WVTR), respectively.
Today Huhtamaki is solely focused on the packaging sector with around 16,000 employees in over 30 countries.
In mid-2015, Keurig debuted the K200, a smaller Keurig 2.0 model that can brew single cups or four-cup carafes and comes in various colors.
Texas toast is a toasted bread that is typically made from sliced bread that has been sliced at double the usual thickness of packaged bread.
These early machines used an automotive air conditioning system and worked by combining and freezing a flavor mix, water, and carbon dioxide.
If it has a smaller percentage of egg yolk solids, it is considered ice cream and legally classified as such by the FDA.
With widespread electrification and safer refrigerants, mechanical refrigeration in the home became possible.
Some cans are opened by removing the top panel with a can opener or other tool; others have covers removable by hand without a tool.
The company attracted significant negative media attention when consumers and journalists discovered that its juice packets could be squeezed just as easily by hand as by the company's expensive juicer.
Food banks also provide compassionate, dignified support and work hard to signpost people to agencies that can support with long-term issues to prevent people from needing to use the food bank again.
His surname is a transliteration of the Yiddish word meaning "countryman" or "person living in a rural area" (cf.
However, the Middle English Dictionary asserts that it derives from Old French "grëil, gräil, grëille, gräille a grill (from L[atin] cratīcula)".
Soviet — and now Russian — state standards require natural ingredients and specific levels of fat and sugar content.
They are similar to other types of dumpling, such as Polish pierogi, Polish and Ukrainian uszka, Russian pelmeni, Italian ravioli or tortellini, German Maultaschen, and Chinese jiaozi and wonton.
However, as groundnut production declined in the 1970s and 80s the groundnut pyramids disappeared and were replaced with buildings.
In India and other highly populated, emerging nations, infrastructure expansion includes the deployment of pipes and cable insulation made from HDPE.
After repeated radio calls for help, along with activation of audible location alarms, six firefighters perished in the blaze.
Juvenile rainbow trout exposed to polystyrene fragments show toxic effects in the form of substantial histomorphometrical changes.
He kept this process a secret, but after two years, the bakery accidentally delivered frozen bagels, and the secret was revealed.
The process is less effective in food preservation than are thermal techniques, such as boiling, because pathogens are more likely to be able to survive cold temperatures rather than hot temperatures.
Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers is the main law relating to food information in the European Union.
The case had 46 plaintiffs, consisting of indirect purchasers, direct purchasers, and two competitors.
The orientation of the polymer chains is responsible for the high strength and stiffness of biaxially oriented PET film, which has a typical Young's modulus of about 4 GPa (0.58×10^6 psi).
Thompson lived in Bavaria at the time of his discovery; as the chef thought Bavaria was in Norway, he decided to name the dish "Norwegian omelette".
Before and after World War II, Libby's had canning operations outside the United States in Belgium and France, at Leer in northern Germany, and in the United Kingdom.
Squround packaging affords some of the consumer appeal of traditional cylindrical packaging, while also packing tightly like brick-shaped square cartons.
In Denmark, butter cookies in tins are produced and sold there, and are also exported to other countries.
This can be attributed in part to the New Zealand screw cap initiative which promotes the use of screw caps instead of cork.
The effect is greater with heavy pizza contamination and with a higher percentage of pizza boxes in the recycling input.
The kulfi is then removed from the moulds and garnished with ground cardamom, saffron, or pistachios.
The Etruscans had made large sculptures such as statues in it, where the Romans used it mainly for figurines and Campana reliefs.
It usually contained water for the washing of hands (aqua + manos) over a basin, which was part of both upper-class meals and the Christian Eucharist.
The company encountered financial difficulties after losing the Weight Watchers/Smart Ones licence in 2004.
Consumers consider a temperature between 70 and 85 °C (158 and 185 °F) to be ideal for pizza consumption.
This process, though complicated and error-prone, became popular in the late 1830s or early 1840s and was still used to seal fruit jars until about 1890.
A colloquial term for it is "pia ice cream", which translates to "biscuit ice cream" in the Hokkien dialect.
Shells, such as abalone, conus and olivella from the coast of the Pacific Ocean, would have been obtained through trade.
Features The refrigerator has a TFT-LCD (thin-film transistor-liquid crystal display) screen with TV functionality and Local Area Network (LAN) port.
PET is considered to be essentially non-biodegradable, with plastic bottles estimated to take as long as 450 years to decompose.
A key factor with one-way recyclables is the recycling rate: In the US, only about 30–35% of HDPE bottles are recycled.
Stouffer's products were originally produced by Stouffer Corporation starting in 1946, an offshoot of their chain of Stouffer's Restaurants.
Beer bottling process Packaging of bottled beer typically involves drawing the product from a holding tank and filling it into bottles in a filling machine (filler), which are then capped, labeled and packed into cases or cartons.
See also Feeding America Food waste List of food banks List of voluntary welfare organisations in Singapore List of food labeling regulations References External links Official website
It consists of bringing a sheet of rubber into contact with the decorated stone, and then setting-off the impression so obtained upon the metal surface.
Iceboxes meant that people were able to go to the market less and could more safely store leftovers.
The kits were introduced to France in Spring of 2007 and to the United States of America in Summer 2007.
Kvevri or qvevri (Georgian: ქვევრი [ˈkʰvɛvɾi]) - also known as ch'uri (Georgian: ჭური [ˈtʃʼuɾi]) in Western Georgia - are large earthenware vessels used for the fermentation, storage and aging of traditional Georgian wine.
The low nutritional quality of foods available to clientele at food banks has led to further health effects.
Early preparations were typically sweet and served with coconut milk, reflecting the region’s abundance of rice and coconut.
The rubber bung may be used to seal a flask because the user may require the contents to be mixed via shaking the flask or may require that the contents be kept inside the flask and prevented from leaking out.
The name of zahato or zahako (variants: xahako [ʃahako], zarako) is a diminutive zahat-to/-ko of zahagi 'big goatskin bottle'.
At the end of each interview, Hedberg presented guests with a sample of the peas and corn which had been produced by the town's Green Giant canning plant, along with a sample of what passed for the blue riverbed clay that gave the town its name.
In the early 21st century, the problem of cork taint became prevalent, leading many producers to stop using corks in favor of alternatives.
The heat is turned off, pressure reduced, canner opened, and hot jars carefully lifted out and placed on an insulated surface (towels, wood cutting board, etc.) and out of drafts to cool.
Low-oxygen silos are only opened directly to the atmosphere during the initial forage loading, and even the unloader chute is sealed against air infiltration.
These devices were sometimes repurposed by children as tables around which appropriately sized dolls or action figures could be seated, such as the popular G.I.
Bellisio Foods Incorporated (formerly Michelina's) is an American frozen food manufacturer based in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
The Trussell Trust supports a number of charity coalitions including End Hunger UK, All Kids Count, Lift the Ban, and Stop the #DebtThreats.
In the meantime, several others had patented designs and Mason had known these jars were being produced and sold.
Teller had sold frozen bananas at the Arizona State Fair, with his wife, Rita, he sold the Frozen Bananas at 25 to 30 cents, depending on the size of the Frozen Banana.
A second opening near the bottom vented also to the outside, but low near the ground and usually on the north side of the house, where the air was cooler.
Feb 2007 – Sam Goi, Tee Yih Jia's Executive chairman's investments of more than S$100 million in various Singapore companies, his overseas opportunities, and his connections and business networks.
There are two shoulder straps which are fastened to the base and the columns or the rim; smaller takiding may not have shoulder straps.
Ore-Ida's division headquarters were located in Boise until 1999, when a new frozen foods division was created based at Heinz's corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
These Phoenician examples from the first millennium BC were thought to have been used to contain perfume.
It is usually consumed chilled and is characterised by a smooth, slightly chewy texture and subtly sweet flavour.
Director Michael Mann was attached to the project, but left in February 2003, possibly as a result of the "slow-moving pre-production process." In September 2003, Warner Bros.
Some tubs have special microwave features such as susceptors Tubs can have a heat sealed lidding film attached prior to the lid being placed on.
Their first company, "Grigg Brothers", became the largest distributor of sweet corn in the United States.
Approximately 100,000 hórreos are found in Galicia, another 30,000 in Asturias, about 400 in León, about 30 in Cantabria, about 20 in Navarre, and almost negligible amounts in the Basque Country and Zamora, in addition to an undetermined number of them in Northern Portugal.
In recent years, as minibars become less and less popular with guests, hotels have been eliminating this feature from their rooms.
Meals Kid Cuisine meals that are still known to be produced, as of 2026: References External links Official website
See also Frozen food Instant noodles Ramen Udon References External links Media related to Frozen noodles at Wikimedia Commons
A paan dan is usually crafted out of silver and covered with an oil to prevent the silver from tarnishing.
Treatment Filtration and purification systems now exist that attempt to remove the TCA from corked wine to make it drinkable again, though there are few means of reducing the level of TCA in tainted wine that are approved by the TTB (formerly BATF).
Many such bags are used to contain foodstuffs, such as sandwiches but not cereal and freezer storage.
The freezer-over-refrigerator style had been the basic style since the 1940s, until modern, side-by-side refrigerators broke the trend.
When presented as a bag, a bonbonniere is typically made of tulle or satin and tied with ribbons, and contains five Jordan almonds, with the almonds symbolizing health, wealth, happiness, fertility and long life.
In the late-18th and early-19th centuries, cellarettes were typically simple in design, following a Neoclassical aesthetic.
Both frozen and dehydrated noodles have a longer shelf-life than chilled noodles, which tend to clump after approximately two weeks of refrigeration due to gelatinisation of starch.
Tiny salt spoons appear in the 17th century, and in increasing numbers as the use of trencher salts increased.
The current chairman, Nicholas Oughtred, is the great-great-grandson of the founder, William Jackson.
The American band Gym Class Heroes wrote a song called "Cookie Jar" which was released as a single in 2008.
Posters, radio advertisements, TV advertisements and YouTube videos have all been created to assist in growing the system by providing further information in an educating manner to all potential consumers.
Food storage containers are widespread in use throughout the world and have probably been in use since the first human civilizations.
Its pillars are known as pegollos in Asturian and Cantabrian, esteos in Galician, espigueiros in Portuguese, and abearriak in Basque; and the flat staddle stones are known as vira-ratos in Galician, mueles or tornarratos in Asturian, or zubiluzea in Basque.
In 2007, Ore-Ida/Heinz and Delimex foods (another Heinz brand) sponsored the #21 Wood Brothers Racing Ford for selected NASCAR NEXTEL Cup events, driven by Jon Wood and Bill Elliott.
Highly decorated "holiday tins" are sold during the holiday season and are popular gifts, and often contain cookies, candy, or popcorn.
Design variations Variations of the Mason jar include the "improved Mason," which sealed on a shoulder above the thread instead of below, and the Atlas Strong Shoulder, with a reinforced shoulder area (as the original design was subject to cracks from the stress at the sealing point).
In 1934 Horatio Ebert saw Rubbermaid products at a New England department store, and believed such products could help his struggling Wooster Rubber.
Screw caps met with customer resistance in Australia and New Zealand, and were phased out in the early 1980s, only to be reintroduced gradually in the 1990s to capitalise on the emerging Chinese market.
Eric Kohn of IndieWire applauded the two-part season opener, "Wake Up" and "Escape from the Citadel", for taking a darker turn in regards to the series' storytelling.
The Irish Independent's Linda O'Sullivan wrote "Go taste their ice-cream, it is simply delicious." The Vegetarian Society of Ireland have suggested the product as a suitable dairy-free alternative to ice cream, though it contains honey, meaning it would not be considered vegan.
Synonymous terms In Cambodia, tiffin carriers are known as Chan Srak (Khmer: ចានស្រាក់), in Hokkien they are called Uánn-tsân (Chinese: 碗層), in Indonesian as rantang; mangkuk tingkat (tiered bowls) in Malay; while in Thai they are known as Pin To (Thai: ปิ่นโต [ˈpìn ˈtoː]).
Smart Ones is a brand of frozen food products, including frozen breakfasts, snacks, entrées, and desserts, which are produced in the U.S.
In July 2018, Cavendish Farms announced that because of a shortage of Island potatoes, they would be closing their fresh packaging facility in O’Leary and laying off 40 workers.
History The origins of the Findus brand date back to the founding of Skånska Frukt- vin- & Likörfabriken (Scanian Fruit, Wine and Liqueur Factory) in Bjuv, Sweden, in 1905.
See also Brigade de cuisine Garnish (food) List of restaurant terminology Pantry References Food production operation and management : Aman Publisher India Culinary Institute of America.
Safety While it is possible to safely preserve many kinds of foods, home canning can expose consumers to botulism and other kinds of food poisoning if done incorrectly.
It poses a health risk to workers involved in the production of styrene and polystyrene items, and industries have a compliance program to deal with liabilities.
There were no fire walls or fire doors, and only a single staircase extended from the basement to the roof.
In Michael Reynolds' design, the liquid is added in the form of beer cans, placed in the back of the refrigerator.
Delays in payment of Housing Benefit, Disability benefits and other benefits and general bureaucratic issues with benefits can force people to use food banks.
History Cosimo Ruggeri and Bernardo Buontalenti were 16th-century contemporaries who are credited by some sources with the invention of gelato, while other sources claim that Sicilian cooks gradually modified the sherbet recipe over time, giving birth to the earliest form of gelato.
Created at the dawn of the 20th century, the baskets made with baleen (a flexible material found in the mouths of Mysticeti or baleen whales) were based on willow-root prototypes.
Meal and ingredient requirements Limited cooking time Due to the difficulty of carrying large amounts of cooking fuel, campers often require their meals to be cooked in a short amount of time (5–20 minutes).
Premium Redwood, All Heart Redwood, Mahogany, Pine, Red Oak, Cedar, and Fir are just a few of the various options.
The large mechanized facilities, particularly seen in Russia and North America, are known as grain elevators.
McDonald's procures syrup for its soda fountains from The Coca-Cola Company in stainless steel tanks rather than BiBs for this reason.
Other brands include Streets "Cookie", "Maxibon" (with one-half ice cream sandwich) and "Maxibon Cookie", and "Pat and Stick's Homemade Range" (recognizable by its circular shape).
Conductive heat sealing In conductive heat sealing, the heat is usually generated from a heat-sealing plate or bar in direct contact with the external layer of the packaging.
Following this, the next earliest patent was for a milk bottle with a dome style tin cap and was granted on September 23, 1884, to Whiteman's brother, Abram V.
The pressure-sensitive liners then stick to the bottle or jar and remain in place when the closure is removed.
Steel can recycling A steel can can be recycled again and again without loss of quality; however, for the food grade steel it's required to remove tin from the scrap metal, which is done by way of electrochemistry: the tin is leached from a high pH solution at low negative voltage.
Rigid silos can be provided with more than one vertical partition to compartmentalize it for different grades of product.
Carvel has a history of themed cakes advertised on television including Fudgie the Whale and Cookie Puss.
The National Guard has provided MREs to the public during natural disasters, such as Hurricanes Katrina, Ike, Maria and Sandy; and the 2011 Super Outbreak.
Making it typically involved a process of cooking tomatoes and onions and flavorings such as bay leaves, before straining and then freezing the ingredients.
In November 2009, Libby's announced that because of poor weather on its Illinois pumpkin farms and a depleted back stock, a canned pumpkin shortage was likely as Thanksgiving approached.
A lake village near Glastonbury dating to the late Iron Age has yielded one complete tub and a number of wooden staves.
The American Heritage Dictionary claims that a hogshead can consist of anything from (presumably) 62.5 to 140 US gallons (52 to 117 imp gal; 237 to 530 L).
Some use chemical reactions that result in a color change, while others use the migration of a dye through a filter media.
Names An hórreo is also known as horriu or horru in Asturian; horriu in Leonese; hurriu in Cantabrian; hórreo, paneira, canastro, piorno, or cabazo in Galician; espigueiro, canastro, caniço, or hórreo in Portuguese; and garea, garaia, or garaixea in Basque.
A meat absorbent pad or meat pad, colloquially known in North America as a meat diaper, refers to the absorbent pad found in pre-packaged (or case-ready) meats.
The commercial grain bin operator then sells the commodity at an opportune time and it is then transported, with a grain hopper trailer or dump truck, to a grain elevator to be put on a barge or grain train, if the grain bin isn't already at the grain elevator site.
In England, the ornamental master salt came to be called a standing salt, because it was not passed but remained in place.
The staves will be mated to new, larger heads which results in a higher volume - this means that five whiskey barrels are needed to make four hogsheads as the circumference is greater.
A screw cap is a metal, normally aluminium, cap that screws onto threads on the neck of a wine bottle, generally with a metal skirt down the neck to resemble the traditional wine capsule ("foil").
References Financial Times, page 13, 4 February 2004 External links Media related to Aunt Bessie's, Kingston upon Hull at Wikimedia Commons Aunt Bessie's William Jackson Food Group Regional Food Group for Yorkshire and Humber Archived 29 March 2010 at the Wayback Machine
Alternate shipping methods In July 2008, Walmart and some other stores introduced a square milk jug that does not need to be transported in a crate.
No other organization in Israel rescues food on a national level from hotels and caterers or works with farmers to glean produce from fields.
For the following decades, bag-in-box packaging was primarily preferred by producers of less expensive wines, as they were cheaper to produce and distribute than glass flagons, which served a similar market.
Children however had a strong influence on the market and ensured the survival of well designed, elaborately shaped tins.
A thermal bag to keep pizzas being delivered hot was invented by Ingrid Kosar in 1983, and is commonly used now.
Located in Jakarta, the Food Bank of Indonesia is the first food bank in the country actively working to provide access to food and eradicate hunger in various regions across Indonesia.
The UGR's individual field and combat equivalent is the better-known Meal, Ready-to-Eat (MRE), with the First Strike Ration (FSR), Long Range Patrol (LRP), and Meal, Cold Weather (MCW) serving as specialized field equivalents.
Partnerships Cavendish Farms partnered with Holland College's Culinary Institute of Canada to establish the Cavendish Culinary Creation Center.
American hotel pans are also available in different steel gauges, which refers to the thickness of the metal.
In response, companies such as Underwood, Nestlé, Heinz, and others provided quality canned food for sale to working class city-dwellers.
History The history of wine cave construction in the United States dates back to the 1860s in Sonoma, and the 1870s in the Napa Valley region.
sales were about $610 million in 2010 (down $44 million from the previous year), according to Euromonitor International data.
The product was invented by Bob Mosher and Stanley Garczynski, both of Fort Myers, Florida, who then sold the company to major food producer John Labatt Co.
However, a 1965 law reserved the fiasco for wines of legally controlled denomination (denominazione di origine controllata; DOC), restoring the prestige of that classical container.
In the eighteenth century a cellarette was sometimes referred to as a "Mahogany Butler for liquors" or a "wine cooler" or a "butler".
See also Box wine Canteen (bottle) Colambre Goatskin (material) Mashk New Wine into Old Wineskins Waterskin == References ==
Hippocrates was known to have criticized chilled drinks for causing "fluxes of the stomach", while Seneca lambasted the extravagant costs associated with iced desserts.
In the northeastern United States, nails, bolts, and plumbing fittings were commonly shipped in small rough barrels.
During that period, Korean cuisine adopted Western food and drink, as well as some Japanese food items such as bento (Japanese packed lunches) and norimaki sushi rolled in sheets of seaweed, popularized in Korea under the name of gimbap.
Food Ministers indicated they would consider iintroducing a mandatory policy in the future during its initial release but consumer groups are still concerned that the system is performing below its capabilities until this occurs.
In 2019, Sistema won the Technology Innovator award in the Epicor Customer Excellence Global Awards programme, for its use of automated processes.
Separately, several locally made juice and tea drinks are commonly sold in 11.5 US fl oz (340 mL) cans, including products from Hawaiian Sun and Aloha Maid/ITO EN Hawaii.
A layer of plastic (often PVDC), cork, rubber, or other soft material is used as wad to make a seal with the mouth of the bottle.
Her task was to carry a basket or kanoun (κανοῦν), which contained the offering of barley or first fruits, the sacrificial knife and fillets to decorate the bull, in procession through the city up to the altar on the acropolis.
Phenols within the wood interact to produce vanilla type flavors and can give the impression of tea notes or sweetness.
History Greek artifacts from the classical period in the shape of small bowls are often called salt cellars.
It was a spectacular piece of publicity for Blue Earth." The statue is mounted on a pedestal and has steps so visitors may take a picture standing directly under it.
Implementation of this plan was put on hold while the ban was litigated by restaurant owners and polystyrene manufacturers.
Gallery See also Tiffin carrier: tiered lunchbox of India, Pakistan and the Caribbean References == External links ==
Jacob Schram, a German immigrant and barber, founded Schramsberg Vineyards near Calistoga, California in 1862.
Advertising and sponsorship Beginning in the spring of 2011 Augustine's Pizza was contracted to supply Aramark concessions at PNC Park in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the home of the Pittsburgh Pirates of Major League Baseball.
In China, Tupperware products are sold through franchised "entrepreneurial shopfronts", of which there were 1,900 in 2005.
Nomacorc now known as Vinventions, is a company producing engineered synthetic corks for wine bottles.
Shotcrete reinforcement and ground support is utilized at the tunnel portals and in the interior of the wine caves.
In 1956 Carl Ross took over GF Sleight Ltd, which employed 20 of the best trawler skippers in Britain, and began building trawlers in his latest acquisition – the Cochrane Shipyards of Selby.
Europe In Europe, the standard can is 330 ml, but since the 1990s 250 ml has slowly become common for energy drinks (e.g.
Among those Freezer Queen-branded products were "Gravy with Salisbury Steaks," and "Broccoli with Cheese Sauce." Home Market Foods then transitioned the brand to "Family Buffet," ending Freezer Queen's history.
Printing media Before the widespread adoption of computer aided design (CAD), engineering drawings or architectural drawings were plotted onto sheets of boPET film, known as drafting film.
Other announcements have followed, including one from Bonny Doon Vineyard in July 2002 that 80,000 cases of its "Big House" red and white wine would be bottled under screwcaps – followed by almost all the rest of its production by late 2004 (200,000 cases total).
2020–2021: glass and plastic fragments In January 2021, some batches of Hot Pockets produced during November 13–16, 2020, were found to contain pieces of glass or hard plastic, posing a choking and laceration risk.
In addition to this, the Paper Cup Company actively supports the national "Save A Cup" campaign by promoting the recycling of paper cups.
The extreme cold temperature can cause damage to human tissue, and the displacement of oxygen by nitrogen can cause asphyxiation.
It was originally produced from 2006 to 2012, but after a popular campaign was reintroduced in 2019.
Differentiation from other methods of foodsaving Other organizations like the German Tafel differ from foodsharing in that in the latter, the surplus food is given to people before date expires.
According to Jane Grigson, Mony passed the recipe to Jules Gouffé, who published it in his 1867 book Livres de Cuisine and attributed it to Mony.
Grepper has said that improvements in technology and the reduced size of components made him realize that the multi-function cooler could be engineered as a consumer product, and he developed a prototype using 3D printing technology.
Ball's "Ideal" canning jar, which first appeared around 1915 and was discontinued in 1962, is one of the company's best-known jars and is popular among collectors.
A 14th century painting by Tommaso da Modena shows a small rounded fiasco, completely wrapped with cords of some type.
See also Notes References Soroka, W, "Fundamentals of Packaging Technology", IoPP, 2002, ISBN 1-930268-25-4 Yam, K.
A study conducted in 2017 from the Nutrients journal found that 4348 out of 15,767 (28%) eligible products were displaying the HSR logo.
His Middle and Late styles, which are generally egg-shaped, or less often, globular or carrot-shaped, with rounded bottoms and without handles, are now recognized as botijas.
Related products may also include other fillings with the ice cream and be styled similar to candy bars.
The basket is traditionally lined with a white linen or lace napkin and decorated with sprigs of boxwood (bukszpan), the typical Easter evergreen.
Thermoelectric coolers typically can drop the temperature by about 40 °F or 22 °C below ambient temperature, or can raise it by at least that much; this is a function of the effectiveness of the boxes' thermal insulation.
The company said it would fund delivery of the remaining 26,000 backer rewards from profits from retail sales.
A souring bag (also called émesesley, agiwir, or tanwart) is a hide or leather bag used for fermenting milk.
Regulations and testing Several national parks and national forests require backcountry visitors to carry approved food storage containers.
Concern about humidity is one of the primary reasons why wine experts such as Tom Stevenson recommend that wine should not be kept in a refrigerator since the refrigeration process often includes dehumidifying, which can quickly dry out corks.
They collect perishable food like fruits and vegetables from Pasir Panjang Wholesale Centre, cakes and pastries from F&B establishments, and cooked food from hotels through their Food Rescue Project.
Readily biodegradable meat drip pads are available, though in limited use due to their higher costs.
Microplastics which are present on the bottom of the river or seabed can be ingested by small marine life, thus entering the food chain.
History Rubbermaid was founded in 1920 in Wooster, Ohio as the Wooster Rubber Company by nine businessmen.
The snack was nearly called Battered Cod Pieces, until a poll of Birds Eye workers opted for the snappier Fish Fingers.
Materials Basket makers use a wide range of materials, including: Bamboo Carbon fiber Metal Palm Plastic Straw Wicker (traditionally made of willow, rattan, reed, and bamboo) Image gallery See also References Sources Zepeda, Ofelia (1995).
In the Wine Spectator, writer Matt Kramer noted a French study which claimed that the relative humidity within a bottle is maintained 100% regardless of the closure used or the orientation of the bottle.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, June Whitfield appeared in a series of television advertisements for Birds Eye products, featuring the concluding voice-over line: "...
Due to the layoff of nitrate workers, common pots multiplied in the country's capital, and homeless people began to live in caves in the hills that surround said city.
In addition, the use of perfluoroalkyl ethyl-containing food-contact substances are no longer allowed by the U.S Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulations in January 2016.
It consists of a paper cup that is filled with some sort of sweet liquid (such as Kool-Aid) and frozen.
Jamie Goode presented arguments against reports he described to "represent the science of closures badly, are filled with inaccuracies and misunderstandings, and do not serve the wine industry well", and addressed the inaccuracies in specific points.
He set up a factory in Eastbourne producing Arctic Roll in 1958, and the dessert soon became a successful product.
Iron-age ritual use seems unlikely, given the Celtic druids' known custom of worship in outdoor spaces open to the sky.
Many modern picnic baskets also have a special storage section to hold a bottle of wine, the traditional beverage brought along to intimate picnics.
The company has maintained this environmentally friendly strategy by working with the international Green Earth Appeal and the United Nations Environment Programme by planting a tree in the earthquake-hit island of Haiti for every thousand cups it sells.
Though regarded as an extravagant and somewhat outdated dish today, the pijama was considered part of the corpus of the Catalan cuisine and its recipe was included in the inventory published by the Foundation of the Catalan Institute of Cuisine and Gastronomical Culture.
The company distribute their products all over the world, from the UK to South Africa and all the way to Australia.
The treat is also known as a “cool cup”, "frozen cup", or "honey dipper", with any name including cup referring to the paper, plastic, or styrofoam cup commonly used to make it.
The Bureau of Corporations, predecessor of the Federal Trade Commission investigated the country's meatpackers for anti-competitive practices in the first decade of the 1900s.
Labels became instruments of “informational governance,” conveying safety, nutritional value, and even moral or environmental claims.
Electric refrigerators In 1894, Hungarian inventor and industrialist István Röck started to manufacture a large industrial ammonia refrigerator which was powered by electric compressors (together with the Esslingen Machine Works).
Packages of butter which were wrapped were called prints (for example, pound prints weighed one pound each).
See also Military rations Space food Camping Campfire Outdoor cooking References Further reading Claudia Axcell, Vikki Kinmont Kath, Diana Cooke, Simple Foods for the Pack, 3e.
The person in charge of this area, and all of the savory cold foods served by the restaurant, is known as the chef garde manger, or pantry chef.
The more commonly cited explanations include: It is a historical remnant from the era when wine bottles were free blown using a blowpipe and pontil.
Dishwashing was done in a scullery or butler's pantry, "depending on the type of dish and level of dirt".
Sites in the Middle East show that weaving techniques were used to make mats, and possibly also baskets, circa 8000 BCE.
However, these canning attempts all failed, primarily as they could not produce a stable wine in a can product.
Under the stewardship of Michael Serruya (President and CEO), CoolBrands held exclusive long-term licenses for brands including Weight Watchers, Godiva, Tropicana, Betty Crocker, Trix, Yoo-hoo and Welch's.
Countries and regions in the international network include Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, Columbia, Guatemala, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Taiwan, Turkey, and the UK.
Lean Cuisine items are also calorie-controlled, with most items in the 200–300 calorie range, with a minimum of 140 calories and a maximum of 400 calories.
Multilayer packaging is a form of composite material that combines two or more distinct layers, each chosen for protective or functional properties.
In the 4th century AD, the Christian bishop Gregory of Nyssa writes that the text's usage of this term should not be taken as reason to believe in the mythical Greek tale of Amalthea, but that it is the text's way of emphasising the virtuous character and beautiful appearance of Job's daughter.
The 60 kg sack is starting to be replaced by huge polypropylene or polyethylene bags, such as the flexible intermediate bulk container.
In the late 1800s, Continental cuisine had expanded the work of the garde manger to include the preparation of elaborate buffets of cold food.
In 2004, Banquet introduced Homestyle Bakes – ready to bake dinner kits in 11 varieties, as well as Dessert Bakes – no-bake pie and cake mixes.
See also Insulated shipping container Beer koozie Vacuum flask (Thermos) Cellarette Coolgardie safe Icebox References 11.
It is not to be confused with the same name as known in upper Padas River in Sabah, whereby the latter is another name of barait, a traditional basket-backpack of the Murut people.
Modifications to work in more variable climates, such as a trap door to selectively draw air from a cellar, are possible.
is a regional frozen food company located in New Castle, Pennsylvania, United States, part of the Pittsburgh metropolitan area.
Water ice Finely granulated flavored ice of Italian immigrant origin is instead commonly referred to and sold as water ice by residents and natives of Philadelphia and the Philadelphia metropolitan area, including South Jersey.
PETG For example, cyclohexanedimethanol (CHDM) can be added to the polymer backbone, replacing some of the ethylene glycol.
Hot air heat sealing, however, can be less energy-efficient than other sealing techniques like induction or ultrasonic sealing, and it might require for more accurate air control systems to guarantee effective sealing, particularly at high production speeds.
A decree from 1574 by the Grand Duke of Tuscany fixed the capacity of the mezzo quarto bottle, and established a public office that would certify the capacity of fiaschi by a lead seal applied to the straw covering.
Some argue that the slow ingress of oxygen plays a vital role in aging a wine, while others argue that this amount is almost zero in a sound cork and that any admitted oxygen is harmful.
In the summertime, the temperature in the cold pantry would usually hover several degrees lower than the ambient temperature in the house, while in the wintertime, the temperature in the cold pantry would be considerably lower than that in the house.
It is served as a smoothie in a bowl, sometimes mixed with guaraná syrup or other sweeteners, and is commonly topped with granola and banana.
The elegant boxes, made in multiple sizes, became closely associated with Belgium, and, although being flimsy, with the chocolates of superior quality, owing in part to the "hand-crafted" feel of the box as opposed to hinged tin boxes used for mass-produced inferior confections.
The standard measures were creel, which were made in officially approved volumes of one half and one quarter cran (another unit for measuring fresh herring).
Swanson eventually introduced a new line of frozen dinners called "Le Menu" in 1983 which featured more sophisticated menus on undivided plastic microwavable plates with lids.
Since 2012, the government of Arequipa province has organized the Day of Arequipan Queso Helado at the Plaza de Armas de Arequipa every fourth Sunday in January.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
Historical parallels During the Stalinist purges, Jews who were accused of being "rootless cosmopolitans" had their names placed in single parentheses.
According to the Pampangan Academy (Akademiang Kapampángan), the Batiáuan revision complicates Kapampangan writing and confuses adherents of their proposed orthography.
Less common adverbs, including all those that end -ly, are less likely to need hyphens." In the 19th century, it was common to hyphenate adverb–adjective modifiers with the adverb ending in -ly (e.g., "a craftily-constructed chair").
Association with shouting or yelling Messages completely in capital letters are often equated on social media to shouting and other impolite or argumentative behaviors.
The diaeresis can be combined with the acute, grave and circumflex but never with breathings, since the letter with the diaeresis cannot be the first vowel of the word.
Lateral masking is a problem for the human visual perception of identical or similar entities in close proximity.
Types The following are examples of types of parenthetical phrases: Introductory phrase: Once upon a time, my father ate a muffin.
The older MS-DOS filesystems FAT12 and FAT16 were case-insensitive and not case-preserving, so that a file whose name is entered as readme.txt or ReadMe.txt is saved as README.TXT.
The sign equivalent to Iberian s is transcribed as z in Celtiberian, because it is assumed that it sometimes expresses the fricative result of an ancient dental stop (d), while the Iberian sign ś is transcribed as s.
It is used by scholars of the Hittite language to separate clitics from the word to which they attach; this usage has been adopted by the Leipzig Glossing Rules.
Italian orthography, which is shallow overall, offers clear examples of differential directionality in depth.
In the phrase dos and don'ts, most modern style guides disparage spelling the first word as do's; however, there is a lack of consensus and certainly the use of an apostrophe continues, legitimately, in which "the apostrophe of plurality occurs in the first word but not the second".
Vertical lines Ancient inscribed and cuneiform scripts such as Anatolian hieroglyphs frequently used short vertical lines to separate words, as did Linear B.
For example, in the International Phonetic Alphabet used in linguistics, ⟨a⟩ and ⟨ɑ⟩ represent different sounds, even though they are allographs of a lower-case ⟨a⟩ in normal English usage.
If A is ordered before B, there is a counterbleeding relationship if B destroys the environment that A applies to and has already applied and so B has missed its chance to bleed A.
In current practice, interrobang-like emphatic ambiguity in Hispanic languages is usually achieved by including both sets of punctuation marks, one inside the other: (¿¡De verdad!?
In his studies on what is now called Jungian archetypes, a sign stands for something known, as a word stands for its referent.
The particle ⟨не⟩ and the preposition ⟨без⟩ are written unchanged, independently of pronunciation: ⟨не быў⟩, instead of ⟨ня быў⟩; and ⟨без мамы⟩, instead of ⟨бяз мамы⟩ (compare with English definite article "the").
Drinov also believed that the letter щ and the silent yers should be removed, however, this was never put into practice.
Since, however, in commonly used modes, an individual tengwa was equivalent to a consonant, the term tengwa in the fiction became equivalent to "consonant sign", and the vowel signs were known as ómatehtar.
These keys can then be efficiently compared byte by byte in order to collate or sort them according to the rules of the language, with options for ignoring case, accents, etc.
Their prophecy so remained and was explained by the prophet Ezekiel: "So says the Lord, G-d: Are you the one of whom I have spoken in the days of yore through prophets of Israel?
In response to intense public criticism, businesses, organizations, and governments may take symbolic actions rather than, or in addition to, directly addressing the identified problems.
Shackle suggests that the Gurmukhī script was not favoured by Punjabi Muslims due to its religious (Sikh) connotations.
This is a spacing character, not to be confused with the alternative (below-letter) form of the ligature tie (a͜b U+035C ◌͜◌ COMBINING DOUBLE BREVE BELOW), which is a combining character.
Methods of romanization include transliteration, for representing written text, and transcription, for representing the spoken word, and combinations of both.
H-system The original method of working around the diacritics was developed by the creator of Esperanto himself, L.
It is also traditionally used to mark the division between lines of verse printed as prose (the style preferred by Oxford University Press), though it is now often replaced by the forward slash.
This system was presented to the International Romani Union in 1990, who adopted it as the organization's "official alphabet".
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Looijenga, Tineke (2003), Texts & Contexts of the Oldest Runic Inscriptions (PDF), Leiden: Koninklijke Brill NV, ISBN 90-04-12396-2, archived from the original (PDF) on 2022-05-08, retrieved 2019-09-23 == External links ==
The straight apostrophe ' (the "ASCII apostrophe", U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE) is even more ambiguous, as it could also be intended as a left or right quotation mark, or a prime symbol.
According to the Yiddish scholar Dovid Katz, "prejudices and misconceptions" concerning Yiddish were promulgated by both antisemites and well-meaning Jewish assimilationists during the 19th century, both of whom regarded Yiddish as a degenerated form of German.
Matthijs Siegenbeek (Dutch pronunciation: [mɑˈtɛis ˈsiɣə(m)ˌbeːk]; 23 June 1774 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1854 in Leiden) was a Dutch academic.
Leibniz wrote about the alphabet of human thought and Alexander von Humboldt corresponded with Peter Stephen Du Ponceau who proposed a universal phonetic alphabet.
The randomized capitalization leads to the flow of words being broken, making it harder for the text to be read as it disrupts word identification even when the size of the letters is the same as in uppercase or lowercase.
Although the first example of written Romani dates from 1542, it is not until the twentieth century that vernacular writing by native Romani people arose.
The Babylonian Talmud discusses why the Hebrew Bible in Leviticus 23:42–43 writes for the plural word 'booths' the Hebrew word סֻּכֹּת (in defective scriptum), but in the verse that immediately follows makes use of the plural word in its usual form, סֻּכּוֹת.
It is currently edited by Mike Zender of the University of Cincinnati, which publishes and provides administrative offices for the journal.
Computer encoding Unicode encodes the daṇḍas as U+0964 । DEVANAGARI DANDA and U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA.
Rabbi Jedidiah Norzi (1560–1626) wrote a popular work on Hebrew orthography contained in the Five Books of Moses, and in the five Megillot, with examples of plene and defective writings, which was later named Minḥat Shai.
Whole language and related areas Whole language has the reputation of being a meaning-based method of teaching reading that emphasizes literature and text comprehension.
In a letter to the English Journal, Peter Brodie stated that apostrophes are "largely decorative ...
In addition to the unusual spelling system used the manuscript is notable for several other reasons.
The Ukrainian orthography (Ukrainian: Український правопис, romanized: Ukrainskyi pravopys) is the orthography for the Ukrainian language, a system of generally accepted rules that determine the ways of transmitting speech in writing.
The Latin alphabet has been preferred among Amazigh linguists and researchers, and also has a great deal of established writing, including newspapers, periodicals, and magazines.
The plays of Shakespeare show capitalization both of new lines and sentences, proper nouns, and some significant common nouns and verbs.
Another example of using a structured approach to teach reading is the foundational-skills curriculum, UFLI Foundations, developed by researchers at the University of Florida Literacy Institute.
Discussion of how to harmonize these with other systems led to several largely abortive proposals such as the African Reference Alphabet and the World Orthography.
References Sources Dictionary.com – Tittle External links Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon "Tittle" on Everything2
See also Vertical bar – Typographic symbol, | Pilcrow – Symbol (¶) to identify a paragraph, the latin character-set equivalent of the double daṇḍa Footnotes References External links The dictionary definition of danda at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of दण्ड at Wiktionary
The hyphen may be used between vowel letters (e.g., ee, ea, ei) to indicate that they do not form a digraph.
As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticized as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both.
800–1100) From the early Viking Age, the Younger Futhark inscription Ög43, from Östergötland, Sweden, features a unique case of an ideographic rune, namely an Elder Futhark d-rune ᛞ (early Old Norse: *dagʀ), used to represent the carvers name.
Everyday use of diacritics for Filipino is, however, uncommon, and meant only to distinguish between homonyms between a word with the usual penultimate stress and one with a different stress placement.
Tsade (also spelled ṣade, ṣādē, ṣaddi, ṣad, tzadi, sadhe, tzaddik) is the eighteenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Phoenician ṣādē 𐤑, Hebrew ṣādī צ‎, Aramaic ṣāḏē 𐡑, Syriac ṣāḏē ܨ, Ge'ez ṣädäy ጸ, and Arabic ṣād ص‎.
Only with the three velar consonants, which like most Russian consonants have both a hard and a soft form, does the spelling rule actually reflect phonetically based pronunciation.
Some users of keyboards with Caps Lock on the left remap the keys to exchange Control and Caps Lock, finding the traditional location more ergonomic for using programs benefiting from use of the Control key.
He describes the use of the asterisk and the dagger as: "an asterisk makes a light shine, the obelisk cuts and pierces".
However, the practice is not unified when writing initial letters of personal names (first name and surname), for example Jan Chudoba can be abbreviated both J.
History In 1496, the semicolon ; is attested in Pietro Bembo's book De Aetna printed by Aldo Manuzio.
Orthographic regularity and depth Writing systems, especially alphabets, often include characters that can represent multiple sound values, or conversely sound values that can be represented by multiple characters – this phenomenon is referred to as polyvalence.
It is a particular graphical representation, in a particular typeface (or computer font), of an element of written language.
The oldest inscriptions in the southeastern Iberian script date to the 4th century BCE, while the most recent ones date from the end of the 2nd century BCE.
Syllabograms in syllabaries are analogous to letters in alphabets, which represent individual phonemes, or logograms in logographies, which represent morphemes.
This strategy is also followed with the ambiguous letters е, ю, and я in final syllables, for instance in юнь /jyn/ cheap.
OpenType provides support for transformations from normal letters to petite caps by two feature tags, pcap and c2pc.
Nevertheless, since 1991 the ligature ⟨և⟩ is oftentimes intentionally avoided in some print media, where ⟨եվ⟩ or ⟨եւ⟩ is used instead.
According to tradition, the Greeks had acquired the ability to write, among other things, from the Egyptians through Pythagoras (c.
Capital letters have been widely used in printed headlines from the early days of newspapers until the 1950s.
A readable orthography will avoid situations in which a reader is faced with severe lateral masking.
Although their Adobe glyph names are 'letter with comma', their names in the Unicode Standard are 'letter with a cedilla'.
The printed form is called uchen script while the hand-written cursive forms used in everyday writing are called umê script.
The letter Mem also had a descender 𐡌‎, however, its current final form ם‎ was a variant of מ‎ used interchangeably in all positions.
Diple obolismene was used according to Isidore to separate sentences in comedies and tragedies, so its usage was similar to that of paragraphos.
Decimals and Version Numbers: A variation of natural sort, often called version sort, is designed to handle multiple numeric segments separated by dots (e.g., 1.2.10 vs 1.2.2).
English is unusual because it combines deep orthography, with multiple possible sounds for many letters.
Small capitals are not found in all font designs, as traditionally in printing they were primarily used within the body text of books and so are often not found in fonts that are not intended for this purpose, such as sans-serif types which historically were not preferred for book printing.
It is also applied in areas such as voter registration, where Mac and Mc names may be sorted together in a listing.
Latin alphabet Most orthographies that use the Latin writing system are imperfectly phonological and diverge from that ideal to a greater or lesser extent.
This would then suggest that the Vikings closely tied their language to their auditory sense, which in turn would have helped with the continual transfer of their cultural memory, which was also closely tied to their language.
Usernames: Authentication systems usually treat usernames as case-insensitive to make them easier to remember, reducing typing complexity, and eliminate the possibility of both mistakes and fraud when two usernames are identical in every aspect except the case of one of their letters.
if the syllable in which the о is to be added in the suffix is unstressed, then one must always write е.
The orthographic system developed by Chinese Evenki scholars reflects differences between Evenki and Mongol phonology.
Each identification number specifies six attributes—category, group, symbol, variation, fill, and rotation—as dash-separated values.
Goosse's book, trying to make the debate less personal, was titled La « nouvelle » orthographe, Exposé et commentaires, published by Ed.Duculot in 1991.
Phonograms are contrasted with logograms, graphemes that represent units of meaning like words, morphemes, and determinatives (silent characters used to mark semantic categories).
The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) also has some featural elements, for example in the hooks and tails that are characteristic of implosives, ɓ ɗ ʄ ɠ ʛ, and retroflex consonants, ʈ ɖ ʂ ʐ ɳ ɻ ɽ ɭ.
Up until then, Spanish norms were used in writing Kapampangan, which in turn meant that Kapampangan orthography was subject to the succession of reforms made by the Real Academia Española to Spanish orthography.
Math and science Decimal separator In the Middle Ages, from the original Indian decimal writing, before printing, an overline over the units digit was used to separate the integral part of a number from its fractional part, as in 9995 (meaning 99.95 in decimal point format).
The term donor principle is sometimes also used for the particular spelling of names of specific products, brands, institutions, etc., chosen by their owner, founder, designer, etc., when it clashes with the official spelling rules.
Some nations have established language academies in an attempt to regulate aspects of the national language, including its orthography—such as the Académie Française in France and the Royal Spanish Academy in Spain.
An -ing fragment is a type of incomplete sentence containing a word ending in -ing that is a gerund or noun, not a verb, because it lacks a helping verb.
Routine use of the serial comma helps to prevent ambiguity." Garner's Modern English Usage, 4th edition (Oxford University Press, 2016), "Punctuation," § D, "Comma", p.
Italic and bold face forms are also allographic, as is the variation seen in serif (as in Times New Roman) versus sans-serif (as in Helvetica) forms.
The Celtiberian script is a Paleohispanic script that was the main writing system of the Celtiberian language, an extinct Continental Celtic language, which was also occasionally written using the Latin alphabet.
Between 1100 CE and 1400 CE, the Telugu and Kannada scripts separated from the Telugu-Kannada script.
Homophones Two (or more) differently spelled words with different meanings are homophones if they are nonetheless pronounced the same; e.g., "right", "rite", "wright", and "write"; "read" (most tenses of verb) and "reed"; "read" (past, past participle) and "red".
In the end, it was indeed Drinov's reform which would become the most widely used, even during the Ottoman Empire.
In Unicode code charts, the representative glyph used for U+02BB looks identical to that used for the U+2018 ‘ LEFT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK, but this is not true for all fonts.
Indeed "virtually every edition" of the playwright's work in the early 19th century before 1840 used this spelling.
According to Dhavan, Punjabi began to adopt the script as a "side effect" of educational practices in Mughal-era Punjab, when Punjabi Muslims learned the Persian language in order to participate in Mughal society.
Expanding the Application of SWI SWI is gaining traction as a method for teaching students of varying ages, from young children to adults, by emphasizing the structure of words rather than rote memorization.
A major area of the debate concerned whether or not "Into Darkness" was a subtitle of Star Trek Into Darkness, which was not clear without the colon.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
The same is true for the ⟨o⟩ in English boat, [oː] in Scottish English, instead of the diphthong [əʊ].
Spell checkers can use approximate string matching algorithms such as Levenshtein distance to find correct spellings of misspelled words.
clauses that have not been made dependent through the use of a relative pronoun or a subordinating conjunction) that are joined without appropriate punctuation: the clauses "run on" into confusion.
In academic writing, it is sometimes used as an in-text referencing tool to make reference to a specific paragraph from a document that does not contain page numbers, allowing the reader to find where that particular idea or statistic was sourced.
The term is infrequently used, as the number of letters is usually specified: Some multigraphs are considered ligatures, or letters unto themselves, such as ⟨ij⟩ in Dutch, ⟨dzs⟩ in Hungarian, and ⟨dž⟩ in Serbo-Croatian and a few other Slavic languages.
Previously this sign could also appear above the medial form of kāf, instead of the stroke on its ascender.
Bell, who introduced them in his edition of the British Classics [published in the 1780s and 1790s].
He was regarded as a pioneer in the development of the writing of the Luganda language, and held prominent positions in the Ugandan colonial government of the day.
(In some typefaces, one or other or both of these characters are designed in these styles; they are not produced by overstrike or by combining diacritic.
Two contrasting philosophies exist with regard to emergent readers learning to associate letters to speech sounds in English.
It may be used to separate a person's given and family names, such as transcribing the name of Galileo Galilei as: ガリレオ゠ガリレイ.
Sometimes intervocalic b and m is silent: as in ᠳᠡᠪᠡᠯ debel (Khalkha: дээл deel) 'robe, garment' or ᠬᠦᠮᠦᠨ kümün (Khalkha: хүн khün) 'human, person; man'.
For example, a blank statement (a semicolon by itself) stands for a NOP in C/C++, which is useful in busy waiting synchronization loops.
The now final forms ן ץ ף ך‎ predate their non-final counterparts; They were the default forms used in any position within a word.
For example, one might send a message reading "*morning" or "morning*" to correct the misspelling in the message "I had a good mroning".
[3] Paper by Wiebke Petersen on 'A Mathematical Analysis of Pāṇini’s Śiva sūtras.' [4] Paper by Madhav Deshpande on 'Who Inspired Pāṇini?
This can be contrasted with the older way of abbreviating et cetera, namely &c., where ⟨&⟩ is used to represent et as a full loanword, not a heterogram.
A meme known as "Mocking SpongeBob" more broadly popularized using alternating caps to convey a mocking tone starting in May 2017, leading to alternating caps becoming a mainstream method of conveying mockery in text.
Many Spanish words are similar or identical to English words, but with an "n" inserted, or replacing an "m", leading to errors: "inmigrant" from "inmigrante", "cementery" from "cementerio", "confortable" instead of "comfortable".
This principle applies in particular to the standardization in the receiver language of exonyms when they are used in publications.
Depending on the classification, it is considered the Southern or Southeastern variety of the ǃKung (also rendered ǃXun) language cluster.
Jawi nya In the Jawi alphabet, the letter nya is a modified form of the letter nūn with two additional dots.
The section sign is frequently used along with the pilcrow (or paragraph sign), ¶, to reference a specific paragraph within a section of a document.
Ethiopic (Geʽez) The Ethiopic (Geʽez) script appears in southern Arabia during periods of Aksumite presence, especially in the 6th century.
For example, hitobito, "people", is usually written 人々, using the kanji for 人 with an iteration mark, 々, rather than 人人, using the same kanji twice.
The nasal tilde is sometimes mistaken for the tone mark ngã in modern reproductions of early Vietnamese writing, such as in Phạm Thế Ngũ's Việt Nam văn học sử.
The writings are not arranged chronologically, however, and so they serve only as an approximate guide for determining the age of the manuscript.
This revision created the standard script, known as tongki fuka sindaha hergen (Manchu: ᡨ᠋ᠣᠩᡴᡳ ᡶ᠋ᡠᡴᠠ ᠰᡳᠨ᠋ᡩ᠋ᠠᡥᠠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ) — the "script with dots and circles".
The seven Yoruba vowels (⟨a⟩, ⟨e⟩, ⟨ẹ⟩, ⟨i⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨ọ⟩, ⟨u⟩) can be uttered in three different tones: high (acute accent); middle (no accent) and low (grave accent).
Another example is the tonal difference between ainm [ɛnɛm] and anam [anam], the latter of which has the tonal contour appropriate to a disyllable.
Wiki link markup Camel case is used in some wiki markup languages for terms that should be automatically linked to other wiki pages.
However, a ligature such as |fi|, that is treated in some typefaces as a single unit, is arguably not a glyph as this is just a design choice of that typeface, essentially an allographic feature, and includes more than one grapheme.
Dearborn (February 1, 1875 – July 28, 1937) worked as a shorthand instructor and trainer of shorthand teachers at Simmons College, Columbia University, and several other institutions.
Lowercase the second word after a hyphenated prefix (e.g., Mid-, Anti-, Super-, etc.) in compound modifiers (e.g., Mid-year, Anti-hero, etc.).
This is also sometimes still used in Taiwan for important officials, such as Chiang Kai-shek and Sun Yat-sen, although this practice has gradually fallen out of favor.
In the late 1930s the Latinization campaign was canceled and all newly romanized languages were converted to Cyrillic.
Exactly what Caps Lock does depends on the keyboard hardware, the operating system, the device driver, and the keyboard layout.
At this time Psycharis was assistant to the professor of Greek at the École spéciale des Langues orientales in Paris, and My Journey described an 1886 visit he had made to Constantinople, Chios and Athens.
Shuang tai Shuang tai (Chinese: 雙抬, literally "double shift") as above, but two characters above a normal line.
In the official version of the Even script in 1947, the digraph нг was officially canceled, but in 1954 it was restored again.
The lack of word parsing forced the reader to distinguish elements of the script without a visual aid, but it also presented the reader with more freedom to interpret the text.
Roman square capitals, also called capitalis monumentalis, inscriptional capitals, elegant capitals and capitalis quadrata, are an ancient Roman form of writing, and the basis for modern capital letters.
Typing "DIR/W" gave the "wide" option to the "DIR" command, so some other method was needed if one actually wanted to run a program called W inside a directory called DIR).
In all cases, the Enter key may vary between this L-shaped key on two rows, and the horizontal key on the third row only (moving the key assigned to letter Ǝ to the end of the second row).
Arabic speaking Christians belonging to the Byzantine rite from the Levant (Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria) produced many liturgical items in this medium.
Historically, it represented either a pharyngealized /sˤ/ or an affricate such as the Modern Hebrew pronunciation or Geʽez [t͡sʼ]; which became [t͡s] in Ashkenazi Hebrew.
Since dictionaries adopted the new spellings early on, there is no currently in-print, standard reference work available for traditional spellings.
Traditionally, English-speaking countries (except South Africa) employed commas as the delimiter—10,000—and other European countries employed periods (full stops) or spaces: 10.000 or 10 000.
Some of these words have a Hebrew word equivalent, and that equivalent had totally lost the beginning aleph.
As political parties are often named after philosophies or ideologies, a capital letter is used to differentiate between a supporter of the philosophy, and a supporter of the party, for instance Liberal, a supporter of any Liberal Party, and liberal, a supporter of the philosophy of liberalism.
Some versions of the Apple Messages app are unable to properly handle Zalgo text, and will crash if they try to render a message that contains such text.
Morphophonology (also morphophonemics or morphonology) is the branch of linguistics that studies the interaction between morphological and phonological or phonetic processes.
An ideogram or ideograph (from Greek idéa 'idea' + gráphō 'to write') is a symbol that is used within a given writing system to represent an idea or concept in a given language.
Charles Butler (1571 – 29 March 1647), sometimes called the Father of English Beekeeping, was a logician, grammarian, author, priest (Vicar of Wootton St Lawrence, near Basingstoke, England), and an influential beekeeper.
Sentence 2 is compound because "so" is considered a coordinating conjunction in English, and sentence 3 is complex.
Daytshmerish (Yiddish: דײַטשמעריש) is a Yiddish derogatory term for Germanized variety of Yiddish orthography, style of speaking, and vocabulary.
For example, the letter O and the figure 0 have similar shape but have different meanings; the three letters A, Α and А look identical but are characters from three different scripts (Latin, Greek and Cyrillic).
See also Annotation – Item of metadata attached to a document Aristarchian symbols – Marks to annotate ancient Greek texts Dagger (mark) – Typographical symbol (†).
Other writers have noted that eye dialect has sometimes been used in derisive fashion toward ethnic or regional pronunciation, in particular by contrasting standard spelling with non-standard spelling to emphasize differences.
Among the Italian consonants, both /s/ and /z/ are written ⟨s⟩, and both /t͡s/ and /d͡z/ are written ⟨z⟩; stress and hiatus are also not reliably distinguished.
In languages such as Quenya, which do not contain any voiced fricatives other than "v", the raised stem + doubled bow row is used for the common nasal+stop sequences (nt, mp, nk, nqu).
The asterisk was one of several symbols developed by scholars of Homeric poetry at the Library of Alexandria over 2,000 years ago.
Balanced literacy Balanced literacy is not well defined; however, it is intended as a method that combines elements of both phonics and whole language.
In order to avoid it being confused with the equals sign =, the double hyphen is often shown as a double oblique hyphen in modern typography.
In such circumstances, the spelling pronunciation may well become more comprehensible than the other.
The resulting glyphs may look quite different in shape and style from the reference character or each other, but nevertheless their meaning remains the same.
This set of letters is known acronymically as אותיות מנצפ"ך‎ (otiyot menetzepekh, 'MNTzPK letters').
The Arabic letters ﺙ, ﺫ, ﻅ, representing the Arabic interdentals /θ, ð, ð̣/ may be used in etymological spellings of loanwords, but they are often replaced by ﺕ, ﺩ, ﺽ, in accordance with Shilha pronunciation, e.g.
See also Dagger (typography) Comma Textual criticism Annotation Marginalia Proofreading marks == References ==
Spelling reform Charles Butler published The English grammar (1633) with proposals to improve spelling to a phonetic alphabet.
Garg, the merchants of India used special scripts and each region had its own particular name for their script, such as Mundi, Modi, Mudiya, Mahajani, and Sarafi.
In his book, Butler condemned the vagaries of traditional English spelling and proposed the adoption of a system whereby 'men should write altogeđer according to đe sound now generally received'.
The system is not completely standardized, and, given the differences between dialects and speakers, many words have more than one “correct” spelling and pronunciation.
A phonemic orthography is an orthography in which the graphemes correspond consistently to the language's phonemes, or more generally to the language's diaphonemes.
There are surviving examples of blockprinted amulets containing Arabic words in the Coptic alphabet, probably intended to be sold to Coptic Christians.
Many nouns have irregular plurals, such as jù (person, plural jú), and the plural form of a noun is not predictable.
Code reference See also Dash#Swung dash Tilde#Unicode and Shift JIS encoding of wave dash Japanese punctuation#Wave dash == References ==
However, only one book was published in this alphabet - a translation of the textbook of arithmetic (Арифметика.
Use The character is used in many Polynesian languages as ʻokina, a unicameral consonant letter used within the Latin script to mark the phonemic glottal stop.
For example, the Mandarin Chinese name for the capital of the People's Republic of China is Beijing using the commonly used contemporary system Hànyǔ Pīnyīn, but in the historically significant Wade–Giles system, it is written Pei-Ching.
{\displaystyle {\underline {v}}=\mathbf {v} =\left[v_{1}\;v_{2}\right]^{\mathbf {T} }.} complex numbers.
Other languages (for instance, some assembly languages and LISP dialects, CONFIG.SYS and INI files) use semicolons to mark the beginning of comments.
In the theory of writing systems, homophony (from the Greek: ὁμός, homós, "same" and Greek: φωνή, phōnē, "sound") refers to the presence or use of different signs (phonograms) for the same syllabic value, i.e.
Comparison Some features include: Using the letter o to represent a final [ɔ] or [o], where Classical Occitan uses a.
They come in four main pairs of shapes, as given in the box to the right, which also gives their names, that vary between British and American English.
This often occurs in the course of transcription; thus a transposition error is a special case of a transcription error.
Breviographs were used frequently by stenographers, law clerks and scriveners, and they were also found in early printed books and tracts.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
In order to avoid a complete re-typesetting of the entire text for this discrepancy, the publishers commonly shifted 神 so that it also took two spaces and the rest of the text could be typeset identically with 上帝.) Ping tai Ping tai (Chinese: 平抬, literally "level shift") is another form.
He served in Indian Army Pioneer Corps during World War II and was promoted from a private soldier to 2nd lieutenant in January 1941.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
The characters were often depicted bleeding from their eyes, and forum members interpreted Zalgo as an unimaginable, eldritch apocalyptic figure.
While Arabic is dominant in the Arabian Peninsula today, some modern South Arabian languages, though endangered, survive, with several hundred thousand speakers across Yemen (including Socotra) and Oman.
The son-in-law of Maurice Grevisse, he took over editing and updating Grevisse's last book, Le Bon Usage.
It might seem logical that where spell-checking dictionaries are concerned, "the bigger, the better," so that correct words are not marked as incorrect.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
Using camel case between words reduces the number of spaces, and thus the number of characters, in a given message, allowing more content to fit into the limited space.
Morphophonological analysis often involves an attempt to give a series of formal rules or constraints that successfully predict the regular sound changes occurring in the morphemes of a given language.
These substitutions originated in the early history of Esperanto due to the limitations of typewriters, and typically replace the accented letters (ĉ, ĝ, ĥ, ĵ, ŝ, and ŭ) with digraphs or other ASCII-compatible sequences.
In German, for example, the pentagraph tzsch represents the [tʃ] sound of the English digraph ch, and indeed is found in the English word Nietzschean.
However, in some languages a multigraph may be treated as a single unit for the purposes of collation; for example, in a Czech dictionary, the section for words that start with ⟨ch⟩ comes after that for ⟨h⟩.
Some authors, for example, replace þ with th and ð with th, dh or d but keep the accents; others may not replace ǫ with ö but prefer o.
The seven-letter German sequence ⟨schtsch⟩, used to transliterate the Russian and Ukrainian letter ⟨щ⟩, as in ⟨Borschtsch⟩ [bɔʁʃtʃ] for Russian/Ukrainian ⟨борщ⟩ (Russian: [borɕː], Ukrainian: [bɔrʃtʃ]) "borscht", is a sequence of a trigraph ⟨sch⟩ [ʃ] and a tetragraph ⟨tsch⟩ [t͡ʃ].
In the mode of Beleriand, found on the door to Moria, the bottom tyellë is used for nasals (e.g., vala is used for /m/) and the fifth tyellë for doubled nasals (malta for /mm/).
See also Narkamaŭka Differences between Taraškievica and the official orthography References Two Standard Languages within Belarusian: a Case of Bi-cultural Conflict by Ihar Klimaŭ (Belarusian State University of Culture and Arts) - École normale supérieure, 25 March 2006
Rovás Info News Portal Rovas Foundation: Code request for the Rovas script in ISO 15924 (2012-10-20) Jenő Demeczky, György Giczi, Dr.
In Japanese, list items are typically connected either with the particle と ("and") throughout or separated simply by commas, as in 母と父と私 or 母、父、私.
6 August] 1769) was a Russian poet, essayist and playwright who helped lay the foundations of classical Russian literature.
Descendant scripts by type Logographic Oracle bone script, seal script, clerical script, standard script, semi-cursive script, cursive script, traditional Chinese, simplified Chinese, Zetian characters, bowen, sawndip, chữ Hán, chữ Nôm, hanja and kanji.
These differences meant that Katharevousa was only partly intelligible to a Greek without higher education.
Margaret Heffernan (born 1944), is a Central Arrernte linguist, author, interpreter and translator who is now a well respected elder in her community.
Modern use The pilcrow remains in use in modern documents in the following ways: In legal writing, it is often used whenever one cites a specific paragraph within pleadings, law review articles, statutes, or other legal documents and materials.
The most radical proposals involved the Latinization of Yiddish, which had precedents in pre-revolutionary plans like Ludwig Zamenhof's 1909 blueprint.
This is a stylistic variation on the more common + (plus sign) for a check and # (number sign) for checkmate.
The southeastern Iberian script, also known as Meridional Iberian, was one of the means of written expression for the Iberian language, which was primarily written in the northeastern Iberian script and, to a lesser extent, by the Greco-Iberian alphabet.
Monotonic orthography (from Ancient Greek μόνος (mónos) 'single' and τόνος (tónos) 'accent') is the standard system for Modern Greek.
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
These nine ancient Greek textual annotation symbols are also included in the supplemental punctuation list of ISO/IEC 10646 standard for character sets.
Comparison chart Note: The bopomofo extended characters in the zhuyin row require a UTF-8 font capable of displaying Unicode values 31A0–31B7 (ex.
Text to be formatted by the recipient The use of SHY characters in text that will be broken into lines by the recipient is the application context considered by the post-1999 HTML and Unicode specifications, as well as some word-processing file formats.
Usually, it is written as fullwidth form in Chinese and Japanese, in Unicode: U+FF1F ？ FULLWIDTH QUESTION MARK.
We are also informed that "he spent several years in sciences among Oxonians, particularly, as it seems, in Gloucester Hall; but that study, which he used for a diversion only, proved at length an employment of profit." He is mentioned for his skill in micrography in Holinshed's Chronicle.
Hismaic Hismaic inscriptions are concentrated in southern Jordan and northwestern Arabia, particularly in the Ḥismā desert.
Relatedly, in ranges that include negative numbers, "to" is used to avoid ambiguity or awkwardness (for example, "temperatures ranged from −18 °C to −34 °C").
The aim of the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures, later renamed the International African Institute (IAI), was to enable people to write for practical and scientific purposes in all African languages without the need of diacritics.
Orthographic complexity also contributes to how dyslexia manifests in readers of different languages.
After 1947, with the need for translation of Bible, Latin scripts for Bunun, Paiwan, Taroko, Atayal, and Amis were created.
Sounds that were transliterated included the aspirated sounds k' (Chinese pinyin: k, ᠺ), k (g, ᡬ), x (h, ᡭ); ts' (c, ᡮ); ts (ci, ᡮ᠊ᡟ); sy (si, ᠰ᠊ᡟ); dz (z, ᡯ); c'y (chi, ᡱᡟ); j'y (zhi, ᡷᡟ); and ž (r, ᡰ).
Morphophonology bridges the gap between morphology and phonology, offering insights into the dynamic interactions between word formation and sound patterns.
Variations on written form/pronunciation The letter Pe is one of the six letters which can receive a Dagesh Kal.
By the Song dynasty, the addition of punctuation to texts by scholars to aid comprehension became common.
However, the 1999 Orthographic Dictionary of the Ukrainian language does not include this exception for church-related loanwords, such as архієпископ (archbishop), архієрей (bishop), архімандрит (archimandrite), клір (clergy), клірик (cleric).
While § is usually read in spoken English as the word "section", many other languages use the word "paragraph" exclusively to refer to a section of a document (especially of legal text), and use other words to describe a paragraph in the English sense.
In HTML5, the tag reappeared but its meaning was changed significantly: it now "represents a span of inline text which should be rendered in a way that indicates that it has a non-textual annotation".
In contrast, ideograms were an identifying feature of the Pahlavi system, and these huzvarishn were words borrowed from Semitic languages such as Aramaic that continued to be spelled as in Aramaic (in Pahlavi script) but were pronounced as the corresponding word in Persian.
With alphabetic writing systems, phonological awareness plays a central role in reading acquisition; while phonological awareness in Chinese is much less important.
History The Sinckan Manuscripts are one of the earliest written materials of several Formosan languages, including Siraya and Taivoan.
Wave dash (U+301C 〜 WAVE DASH) is a character represented in Japanese character encoding mainly used as a dash and chōonpu.
Ligature Because of its frequent occurrence, kai is sometimes abbreviated in Greek manuscripts and in signage, by a ligature (comparable to Latin &), written as ϗ (uppercase variant Ϗ; Coptic variant ⳤ), formed from kappa (κ) with an extra lower stroke.
Lowercase articles (a, an, the), coordinating conjunctions, and prepositions of three letters or fewer.
Most inscriptions containing these symbols are extremely short, making it difficult to judge whether or not these symbols constituted a script used to record a language, or even symbolise a writing system.
Cyrillic In 1936–1937, the Even Latin alphabet, like other alphabets of the peoples of the USSR, was replaced by a Cyrillic alphabet that contained all Russian letters and the digraph Нг нг.
Orthographic transcription is a transcription method that employs the standard spelling system of each target language.
Hebrew kaf Hebrew spelling: כַּף‎ Hebrew pronunciation The letter kaf is one of the six letters that can receive a dagesh kal.
Maggin once accidentally signed his name with an exclamation due to the habit of using them when writing comic scripts; it became his professional name from then on.
With computer memory and computer storage at premium, early character sets were limited to the Latin alphabet, the ten digits and a few punctuation marks and conventional symbols.
About the same time, the Greeks created an additional letter, o mega, probably by writing o micron with an underline, that was used for /ɔː/.
The antiquarian Joseph Hunter was the first to publish all known variations of the spelling of the name, which he did in 1845 in his book Illustrations of the Life, Studies, and Writings of Shakespeare.
Silvio Panciera, "Struttura dei supplementi e segni diacritici dieci anni dopo" in SupIt 8 (1991), pp.
In contrast, paleographers today identify the extinction of scriptio continua as a critical factor in augmenting the widespread absorption of knowledge in the pre-Modern Era.
Sample text Following is a reading and explanation of the frame from a Shaba book illustrated at the top of the page.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
During the 5th to 7th centuries the early Bādāmi Chālukyās and early Banavasi Kadambās used an early form of the Kadamba script in inscriptions.
In many books, mention of another part of the same book or mentions the work as a whole will be set in small caps.
History Use of similar gestures has been recorded as early as 1927, and Glenda Farrell used air quotes in a 1937 screwball comedy, "Breakfast for Two." In 1889, in Lewis Carroll's last novel, the author described air brackets and an air question mark.
There were many other such shorthand symbols, to indicate corrections, emendations, deletions, additions, and so on.
Titles The Chicago Manual of Style recommends that the titles of English-language artistic works (plays, novels, essays, paintings, etc.) capitalize the first word and the last word in the title.
An echo vowel, also known as a synharmonic vowel, is a paragogic vowel that repeats the final vowel in a word in speech.
Further investigations will take place with more robust software to discover if there are more letters that have faded.
The Ukrainian orthography of 1933 was approved by the resolution of the People's Commissar of Education of the UkrSSR on September 5, 1933.
The Computer Modern fonts replace it with an "E.T." symbol in the cmti# (text italic) fonts, so it can be entered as {\it\&} in running text when using the default (Computer Modern) fonts.
Kai is a word that is a conjunction meaning "and" in Ancient Greek (καί, kaí, [kǎi̯]), Modern Greek (και, kai, [ce]), Coptic (ⲕⲁⲓ, kai, [cɛ]) and Esperanto (kaj, [kai̯]).
On social media, the trademark symbol has seen use in an ironic fashion, highlighting a concept as if it were important enough to warrant its own trademark, for example, "Official Bisexual Haircut™" or "soon™".
The lower knowledge (apara vidya) includes knowledge of four Vedas, phonetics, grammar, etymology, meter, astrology, and the knowledge of sacrifices and rituals.
External links Overview of the abjad numerological system Sufi numerology site Archived 2012-04-21 at the Wayback Machine Numerical Value of an Arabic Text as per "Abjad" Calculation - www.alavibohra.org Archived 2011-07-05 at the Wayback Machine Abjad Calculator
Example The following passage from Hart's Orthographie, in his original spelling, illustrates the system.
For example, the Cyrillic alphabets adapted to the Caucasian languages, which are phonologically very different from Russian, make extensive use of digraphs, trigraphs, and even a tetragraph in Kabardian ⟨кхъу⟩ for /q͡χʷ/.
In addition, pronunciations change depending on how carefully a person is speaking, how quickly they are speaking, and whether they are in a formal setting or at home.
For example, Unicode character U+0430, Cyrillic small letter a ("а"), can look identical to Unicode character U+0061, Latin small letter a, ("a") which is the lowercase "a" used in English.
There is also a Naxi tradition of pictographic symbols called dongba; this may sometimes be glossed with geba for clarification, since a dongba text may be intelligible only to its author.
Shahmukhi is written from right to left and has 36 primary letters with some other additional letters.
Unicode The Lycian alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in April, 2008 with the release of version 5.1.
The English Spelling Society, sponsor of the congress, afforded TSR a degree of support and publicity which was due to be reviewed in March 2025.
Title case in references The use of title case or sentence case in the references of scholarly publications is determined by the used citation style and can differ from the usage in title or headings.
The statement of Elia Levita that the Westerns follow Ben Asher, and the Easterns Ben Naphtali, is not without many exceptions.
A heptagraph (from Ancient Greek: ἑπτά, heptá 'seven' and γράφω, gráphō 'write') is a sequence of seven letters used to represent a single sound (phoneme), or a combination of sounds, that do not correspond to the individual values of the letters.
Whitaker, "Lacunae and the id est Brevigraph in Oxford, Bodleian Library, MS Bodley 283," Manuscripta 36, no.
"Pazand texts, transcribed phonetically, represent a late and often corrupt Middle Persian pronunciation, and so present their own problems." "The corruptions during this process are sometimes considerable." Among the transcribed texts are the prefaces (dibacheh) to prayers in Avestan.
The victims may never notice the difference, until suspicious or criminal activity occurs with their accounts.
Many characters often explained as semantic compounds were originally phono-semantic compounds that have been obscured in this way.
Isidore of Seville remarks in his Etymologiae (I.21.13) that the diple was used to mark quotations from the Bible.
An open source implementation of UCA is included with the International Components for Unicode, ICU.
The letters ⟨nge⟩, when final, represent /ndʒ/, as in orange; when not final their pronunciation varies according to the word's etymology (e.g.
The system was further refined by his student Aristophanes of Byzantium, who first introduced the asterisk and used a symbol resembling a ⊤ for an obelus; and finally by Aristophanes' student, in turn, Aristarchus, from whom they earned the name of "Aristarchian symbols".
The Mundi script spread to other parts of India by the 17th or 18th century, with it having influence on merchant records written in Karnataka in Kannada script, particularly the form and style of writing.
The dispute over whether to adhere to or make an exception to Wikipedia's guideline stretched to over 40,000 words.
In Italian and Romanian, the orthographic convention for representing /k/ before front vowels is to add ⟨h⟩ (Italian chiaro, [ˈkjaːro] 'clear').
The English language uses a rather large set of 13 to 21 vowel phonemes, including diphthongs, although its 22 to 26 consonants are close to average.
In English writing the tittle is a diacritic which appears only as part of these glyphs, but diacritic dots can appear over other letters in various languages.
Features overlap each other in time, as do suprasegmental phonemes in oral language and many phonemes in sign languages.
In addition to the extensive use of newspaper and magazine ads, Speedwriting gained publicity from a few unsolicited endorsements.
breabhaid "sortie", deabhaidh "haste, skirmish", feabhais "improvement" (gen), leabhair "books", meabhair "minds".
Modern Hebrew uses the forms פ כ‎ finally, when transcribing a plosive pronunciation, for example מיקרוסקופ‎ (microscope), מובארכ‎ (Mubarak, مبارك), while their final forms ף ך‎, are transcribing a fricative pronunciation, for example כך‎ (Kach), שף‎ (Chef).
The original symbol set, SSS-95, was limited in size due to memory constraints in personal computers at the time.
Historically, in Germany and Austria, thousands separators were occasionally denoted by alternating uses of commas and points, e.g.
Undertie The undertie is used to represent linking (absence of a break) in the International Phonetic Alphabet.
There's no clear consensus." Regardless, some far-right users of Twitter saw the tweet as a genuine signal of support for antisemitism, and other users found the tweet to be in poor taste even as a joke.
The text decoration property supports also other typographical features with horizontal lines: underline (a line below the text) and strikethrough (a line through the text).
Traditionally, scriptio continua was used for the Indic alphabets of South and Southeast Asia and hangul of Korea, but spacing is now used with hangul and increasingly with the Indic alphabets.
The semicolon, as a mark separating statements, corresponds to the ordinary English usage of separating independent clauses and gives the entire program the gross syntax of a single ordinary sentence.
Two modern well-known examples of syllabaries consisting mostly of CV syllabograms are the Japanese kana, used to represent the same sounds in different occasions.
The Sūtrakāra (author of the Sūtras) restored a form of Advaitism by discriminating between the names and functions of akṣara and puruṣa while maintaining their ultimate unity in a single goal.
Ancient Greek had distinctive vowel length: five short vowels, /i e a o u/, and seven long vowels, /iː eː ɛː aː ɔː oː uː/.
A "dotted lunate sigma" (σίγμα περιεστιγμένον) Ͼ was used by him as an editorial sign indicating that the line so-marked is at an incorrect position in the surrounding text; an antisigma, or "reversed lunate sigma" Ͻ, may also mark an out of place line.
Contemporary systems like musical and mathematical notation, computer icons, and emoji have also been characterized as semasiographies.
No effect of phonologically related context pictures were found for the reaction times for reading Chinese words.
He wanted to simplify the spelling so that, in his eyes, people and learners would have an easier time.
It was one of the two main scripts used by merchants in northwest India, the other being Langdi employed in the Punjab region.
In the conjugation of verbs, in both the indicative and the conditional modes, ⟨կ⟩ is added directly, without an apostrophe before vowels or ⟨ը⟩ before consonants.
This can cause uneven spacing in the text, but can be mitigated by the use of thin spaces, hair spaces, or even zero-width spaces on the sides of the em dash.
They were used to highlight missing text, text which was discrepant between sources, and text which appeared in the wrong place.
As with other impure abjads, such as the Hebrew alphabet, scribes devised means of indicating vowel sounds by separate vowel diacritics later on in the development of the script.
There are six vowel letters, one for each of the four oral vowels of Lycian, and separate letters for two of the four nasal vowels.
Other laboratory-based studies of Tall Man lettering show a mixture of positive and null results, which may be further complicated due to demand characteristics of some of the studies.
A speaker may alternatively say "quote" before and "unquote" after quoted words, or say "quote unquote" before or after the quoted words, or pause before and emphasize the parts in quotes.
For languages with relatively shallow orthographies, such as Italian and Finnish, new readers have few problems learning to decode words.
The letter hamza is the only letter of the Arabic alphabet that lacks a final, initial or medial form, only its alone or isolated form, as it is an unlinked letter.
diff output - is used to denote deleted lines in diff output in the context format or the unified format.
Areas of significance Case sensitivity may differ depending on the situation: Searching: Users expect information retrieval systems to be able to have correct case sensitivity depending on the nature of an operation.
Syllabification and spelling Hyphens are occasionally used to denote syllabification, as in syl-la-bi-fi-ca-tion.
List of tetragraphs Latin script Cyrillic script In Cyrillic used for languages of the Caucasus, there are tetragraphs as doubled digraphs used for 'strong' consonants (typically transcribed in the IPA as geminate), and also labialized homologues of trigraphs.
In the latter case, they both contributed enough significant material to the screenplay to receive credit but did not work together.
In Maghrebian Abjad order: For four Persian letters these values are used: Similar systems The Abjad numerals are equivalent to the earlier Hebrew numerals up to 400.
The Pe̍h-ōe-jī of Taiwanese Hokkien and Pha̍k-fa-sṳ of Taiwanese Hakka were also created with by the western missionaries.
(It appears to be an overgeneralization on the part of the al-Kitāb writers.) Overview tables The letter ط ‎ (ṭ) stands here for any consonant.
Possessives in business names Where a business name is based on a family name it should in theory take an apostrophe, but many leave it out (contrast Sainsbury's with Harrods).
It is pronounced, however, such that neither the lips touch together nor the tongue touches the palate.
A pallawa is used to separate rhythmico-intonational groups, thus functionally corresponding to the full stop and comma of the Latin script.
Formally speaking, a collation method typically defines a total order on a set of possible identifiers, called sort keys, which consequently produces a total preorder on the set of items of information (items with the same identifier are not placed in any defined order).
The earliest form of the conventions was agreed at a meeting of classical scholars at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands in 1931, and published the following year.
Following this alphabet came a published dictionary (1859, reprinted in 1900) and the Gospel of Matthew (1880).
Key advantages include needing less runtime storage and the ability to correct errors in words that are not included in a dictionary.
It can be used between two characters with spacing as punctuation, non-spacing as a diacritic, or (underneath) as a proofreading mark.
The Pan-Nigerian alphabet is a set of 33 Latin letters standardised by the National Language Centre of Nigeria in the 1980s.
Syntactical-deductive The colon introduces the logical consequence, or effect, of a fact stated before.
He was born in London in 1547, and is described by Anthony Wood as a "most dexterous person in his profession, to the great wonder of scholars and others".
The Unicode block for Lycian is U+10280–U+1029F: See also Letoon trilingual Lycian language Notes References Adiego, I.
Chinese character The CJK Symbols and Punctuation block contains one Chinese character: U+3007 〇 IDEOGRAPHIC NUMBER ZERO.
Within each example sentence, the parenthetical phrase is the portion that is displayed in an italic font.
Prior to its use as an antisemitic label or identifier, ((( screen name ))) had been used in online communities such as AOL to indicate that a user was "cyberhugging" the user with the specified screen name.
However, when those letters are pronounced separately, as in compound words like Eingabe (input) or also in verbs like fingieren (to feign), both the n and the hard g is clearly audible.
In morphology, the ending ⟨-а⟩/⟨-у⟩ denoting genitive case is regulated as ⟨-а⟩, as in Russian, and not as ⟨-у⟩, as in certain modern dialects.
The human brain does have language centers (for spoken and gestural communication), but written language is a cultural artifact, and a very complex one requiring brain regions designed to recognize and interpret written symbols as representations of language in rapid synchronization.
Many languages written in the Latin alphabet make use of diacritics, and those letters using diacritics are sometimes considered separate letters within the language's alphabet.
In the narrow width of a newspaper column this saving counts for more than elsewhere, which is why the omission is so nearly universal in journalism.
James Park (Bronx); there is not one in the King James Bible either since, like the Hebrew Bible, it is a description and not a possessive.
Some other Semitic languages, including Northwest Semitic languages, are attested, including Aramaic and Hebrew.
Capitals are generally found in certain triggering contexts that do not change the meaning of a word: a proper name, for example, or at the beginning of a sentence, or all caps in a newspaper headline.
This Centre disseminates all the linguistic resources, tools & applications which have been developed under TDIL funding.
In metrical texts, a double daṇḍa is used to delimit verses, and a single daṇḍa to delimit a pada, line, or semi-verse.
It is used as a distinct punctuation mark in Ojibwe language publications in the Fiero Roman orthography, as a hyphen is used to separate compound preverb units regardless of their line position, while a double hyphen is used to divide a word at the end of a line and can be treated as a soft hyphen.
Yiddish diacritics may also be applied to words that are otherwise written entirely with traditional orthography.
Khojki script Khojki, or Khojiki ( Sindhi: خوجڪي (Arabic script) खोजकी (Devanagari)), is a script used formerly and almost exclusively by the Khoja community of parts Sindh.
The diphthongs only appears with the single form of i, as in ᠳᠠᠯᠠᠢ dalai̯ 'sea', at the end of words.
On the English Wikipedia, for example, a search for friendly fire returns the military article, but Friendly Fire (capitalized "Fire") returns the disambiguation page.
See also Filipino alphabet Filipino orthography Dambana Baybayin Kawi script Philippine Braille == References ==
It was an extension of the Greek alphabet, with half a dozen additional letters for sounds not found in Greek.
Each series is headed by the basic signs composed of a vertical stem descending below the line, and a single bow.
The journal was edited for 26 years (1987–2012) by Sharon Poggenpohl of the Illinois Institute of Technology's Institute of Design, with administrative offices at the Rhode Island School of Design.
The same scholars' collection of songs has some orthographic differences from the table below; namely, long vowels are occasionally written not just doubled but also with an intervening silent ᠭ (ɣ), showing clear orthographic influence from the Mongolian language.
Professor at the Université Catholique de Louvain, he was also the president of the Conseil international de la langue française.
The Leiden Conventions or Leiden system is an established set of rules, symbols, and brackets used to indicate the condition of an epigraphic or papyrological text in a modern edition.
Intentionally omitted information Many applications of the dinkus, including those that were common historically, have indicated intentional omission of information.
The word ʾabjad (أبجد) itself derives from the first four letters (A-B-G-D) of the Semitic alphabet, including the Aramaic alphabet, Hebrew alphabet, Phoenician alphabet, and other scripts for Semitic languages.
It introduced, among other reforms, the precursors to the diacritic signs ´ and ˇ which are now besides Czech used in the Baltic languages Lithuanian and Latvian, in other Slavic languages like Croatian, Slovak, Slovenian and partly Polish, and in several other European languages.
Uncial script The majuscule, i.e., a system where text is written entirely in capital letters, was used until the 8th century, when the minuscule polytonic supplanted it.
Use Use of the trademark symbol indicates an assertion that a word, image, or other sign is a trademark; it does not indicate registration or impart enhanced protections.
A system of diacritic marks, or pointing, was later developed to resolve the ambiguities, and over the centuries became nearly universal.
It leaves a full-width (1 character wide) space before the first character of the person; it can be represented as Unicode character U+3000 IDEOGRAPHIC SPACE.
Notable examples of square capitals used for inscriptions are found on the Roman Pantheon, Trajan's Column, and the Arch of Titus, all in Rome.
Typology and variants The basic Celtiberian signary contains 26 signs rather than the 28 signs of the original model; the Celtiberians omitted one of the two rhotic and one of the three nasals of the northeastern Iberian script.
His name is most likely Abu Imran, Moshe ben David ben Naphtali as preserved in Mishael ben Uzziel's 11th century treatise and in the Cairo Geniza fragment T-S K27.36 in the University Library at Cambridge.
Some educated Jews saw Yiddish as a lower-class slang (זשאַרגאָן, zhargon, "jargon") that could be 'improved' by inserting German terms.
Occurrence and appearance Inverted nuns are found in nine passages of the Masoretic Text of the Bible.
The change began in the 7th century, and by the 14th century, the protoscholastic model was the standard.
Meaning The Washington Post calls air quotes "a snide, easy way to discredit or distance oneself from the other side’s words." See also Irony punctuation == References ==
Observances June 28 and October 22 are semiannually observed as International Caps Lock Day as a parody holiday created in October 2000 by Derek Arnold, a user on MetaFilter.
Because they have separate code points, even allographs like upper- versus lower-case letters may be treated as different characters by some computer applications (e.g., case-dependent passwords).
In typography, an asterism, ⁂, is a typographic symbol consisting of three asterisks placed in a triangle, which is used for a variety of purposes.
This is occasionally also done for the Dutch U, though this is formally only required when referring to a deity and may be considered archaic.
It was introduced to make texts for scholars easier to read and comprehend, a necessary function for the more technical concepts introduced by Aristotle.
In orthography, a plene scriptum (Latin for 'fully written') is a word containing an additional letter, usually one which is superfluous – not normally written in that word – nor needed for the proper comprehension of the word.
Sarmiento’s proposal Twenty years later, during his second exile in Chile (1840–1851), Domingo Faustino Sarmiento put forward a proposal similar to Bello’s.
Named for a 2004 Internet creepypasta story that ascribes it to the influence of an eldritch deity, Zalgo text has become a significant component of many Internet memes, particularly in the "surreal meme" culture.
Some publications claim that "Тунгусский букварь" (in English, "Tungus language children's primer (or ABC-book), written 1858), as well as the dictionary and translation of the Gospel of Matthew that followed it, were in the Evenki language.
The identity of a letter in the middle of a word is obscured by the presence of its neighboring letters.
A sentence in capitals, buried deep within a long paragraph in capitals will probably not be deemed conspicuous...it is entirely possible for text to be conspicuous without being in capitals.
When Morse code is written out as text, overlines are used to distinguish prosigns and other concatenated character groups from strings of individual characters.
Notably, the poet Hovhannes Tumanyan, chairman of the Union of Armenian Writers, expressed his discontent in a letter to the Soviet of Popular Commissars, written in May 1922.
On May 17, 1919, the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences approved the "Main Rules of Ukrainian Orthography", which became the basis for all subsequent revisions and amendments.
Concurrency operator In calculi of communicating processes (like pi-calculus), the vertical bar is used to indicate that processes execute in parallel.
Traditional characters Proponents of the counterargument posit that the speed advantage of simplified Chinese becomes less relevant in the internet age.
In German, Slovene and some other Slavic languages, the underscore has recently gained prominence as the punctuation to form gender-neutral suffixes in gendered nouns and other parts of the speech.
See also Cave Beck Constructed language Emoji Engineered language Ideogram Jacob Linzbach Joseph de Maimieux Philosophical language == References ==
A fifth symbol, the punctus flexus was added in the 10th century to indicate a pause of a value between the punctus and punctus elevatus.
A user who does not pay proper attention to the Caps Lock indicator might type the wrong password (in which all small letters become capital letters or vice versa).
Colours: Notes: Hamza in other Arabic-script alphabets Jawi alphabet In the Jawi alphabet (Arabic script used to write Malay), hamza is used for various purposes, but is rarely used to denote a glottal stop except in certain Arabic loanwords.
The purpose of inventing this script was to implement capital letters into the Arabic script to be used similarly to English capital letters—which it does very well.
On the other hand, the pratyāhāra haL is always used in the meaning "all consonants"—Pāṇini never uses pratyāhāras to refer to sets consisting of a single phoneme.
Kanji is a writing system that makes use of morphograms, where Chinese characters were borrowed to represent native morphemes because of their meanings.
According to some contemporaries, parishioners had to reserve an appointment for the confessional ten days in advance.
↑↑↑↑ Albanian officially has the digraphs ⟨dh, gj, ll, nj, rr, sh, th, xh, zh⟩, which is sufficient to represent the Tosk dialect.
At present, all languages of the Philippines may be written using the modern Filipino alphabet (officially adopted in 1987), which includes all the letters of the Abakada.
See also Alphabetic principle Defective script Phonetic transcription Spelling Morphophonology Orthographic depth Orthographic transcription == References ==
The device has a variety of uses, and it usually denotes an intentional omission or a logical "break" of varying degree in a written work.
To limit the scope to common words, the top 350 words are considered (according to various sources).
Examples include the logos of the Norwegian newspapers Aftenpoſten and Adresſeaviſen; the packaging logo for Finnish Siſu pastilles; and the German Jägermeiſter logo.
Although these forms were prescribed to be pronounced differently, the difference was not usually observed in everyday speech; pronunciations were used interchangeably, the one with и being more common.
In telling legends or relating something that happened, words can be drawn out for emphasis, or said quickly to emphasize an abrupt or sudden event.
The character is referred to as a hyphen, a minus sign, or a dash according to the context where it is being used.
From the inside out, each parenthesis represents perceived Jewish involvement in mass media, mass immigration, and global Zionism.
Various missionaries, colonial administrators, and scholarly researchers devised various ways of writing Fulfulde with Latin to ease the efforts of European colonisation.
All other remaining records of 17th century Gaelic verse were committed to paper only after surviving for a hundred years or more as oral literature.
As a result, both & and and may appear in the same credit, as appropriate to how the writing proceeded.
While acronyms have historically been written in all-caps, British, Finnish, Swedish and some German usage has moved towards capitalizing only the first letter in cases when these are pronounced as words (e.g.
The term was coined by George Philip Krapp to refer to a literary technique that implies the standard pronunciation of a given word that is not well-reflected by its standard spelling, such as wimmin to represent more accurately the typical English pronunciation of women.
The alphabet has since been superseded by the adoption of the Filipino alphabet (with an additional eight letters and repositioning of the letter K) in 1987.
An asterism used this way is thus a type of dinkus: nowadays this usage of the symbol is nearly obsolete.
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
Dearborn organized a corporation in 1924 and rebranded her shorthand system under the name of Speedwriting.
Transitive verbs take the irregular plural form when the object is plural, whereas intransitive verbs take the irregular plural when the subject is plural.
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
In 1937 the Works Progress Administration sponsored free Speedwriting classes as part of its Emergency Education Program.
In some cases, the identical spelling of a word in two languages is coincidental; in other cases, it is because they descend from the same ancestor word.
An interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.
Vowels Independent vowels Numerals Unicode Although the alphabets for Telugu and Kannada languages could have been encoded under a single Unicode block with language-specific fonts to differentiate the styles, they were encoded separately by the governments due to socio-political reasons.
In the 1990s, more than three-quarters of newspapers in the western world used lower-case letters in headline text.
In Japanese, iteration marks called odoriji (踊り字, "dancing mark"), kasaneji (重ね字), kurikaeshikigō (繰り返し記号), or hanpukukigō (反復記号, "repetition symbols") are used to represent a duplicated character representing the same morpheme.
Japanese is an example of a writing system that can be written using a combination of logographic kanji characters and syllabic hiragana and katakana characters; as with many non-alphabetic languages, alphabetic romaji characters may also be used as needed.
The Aramaic style in which the text is composed is of a literary standard nature and follows a conventional transliteration system of the Aramaic phonemes in cuneiform syllable signs (e.g.
The two nuns are similar to khaf and reish – to say that they are ach and rak ("only" and "however").
However, consonant clusters were separated with echo vowels: the city of Knossos is written as if it were Konoso (Linear B: 𐀒𐀜𐀰, ko-no-so).
"This time", he told Belgian newspaper Le Soir, "it's like 2,000 pieces of a puzzle have been thrown into the air.
This is evident, for example, in some editions of Album for the Young by composer Robert Schumann (№ 21, 26, and 30).
Misspellings of French words outside the French language occur often and account for part of the etymology of some modern loanwords in English, such as English "caddie".
CEO Jonathan Greenblatt explained that the symbol was "the online equivalent of tagging a building with anti-Semitic graffiti or taunting someone verbally", and that the ADL was "working with our partners in the tech industry to investigate this phenomenon more deeply".
1531 - 4 March 1609) was a 16th-century English phonetician and printer who devised a 40-letter phonetic alphabet for the English language.
In this tradition, possessive pronouns are also capitalized if one is quoting God; "My" and "Mine" are capitalized, which should not be done when a human speaks.
Daniel Jones became the first linguist in the western world to use the term phoneme in its current sense, employing the word in his article "The phonetic structure of the Sechuana Language".
In an alphabetic writing system, a silent letter is a letter that, in a particular word, does not correspond to any sound in the word's pronunciation.
It may be used as a diacritic to derive new letters from old ones, or simply as an addition to make a grapheme more distinct from others.
Many errors are caused by homonyms; for example, French contains hundreds of words ending with IPA [εn] written as -ène, -en, -enne or -aine.
These scripts in turn gave rise to many of the most important scripts of India, including Devanāgarī (the most common script used for writing Sanskrit since the 19th century), the Gurmukhī script for Punjabi, the Bengali-Assamese script and the Tibetan script.
Evil makes exaggerated use of air quotes when explaining matters to his henchmen, particularly while using real phrases he erroneously believes himself to have coined such as "laser" and "Death Star." Donald Trump used air quotes when he criticized “quote-President” Obama's refugee policies.
Термінологічно-правописний порадник для богословів та редакторів богословських текстів (in Ukrainian)
For example, Since CSS styles the text, and no actual case transformation is applied, readers are still able to copy the normally-capitalized plain text from the web page as rendered by a browser.
The symbol -, known in Unicode as hyphen-minus, is the form of hyphen most commonly used in digital documents.
Both Adobe Postscript and the X Window System misspelled the symbol as "guillemot" (a type of seabird) and wrote these misspellings into symbols used in computer file formats so they cannot be fixed.
An example is 來; lái; 'come', written with the character for a similar-sounding word meaning 'wheat'.
In LaTeX mathematical mode, the ASCII vertical bar produces a vertical line, and \| creates a double vertical line (a | b \| c is set as a | b ‖ c {\displaystyle a|b\|c} ).
When used as stand-alone, it would combine unintentionally with a preceding character (possibly a space): Diacritic ̒ used alone between regular spaces Diacritic ◌̒ used after a character Using the generic dotted circle character also shows the relative positioning of the diacritic.
It is used in the orthography of Tundra Nenets to denote a glottal stop, in the Enets and Nganasan alphabets and in the orthography of Dan to indicate that a syllable has a top tone.
The six-letter sequence ⟨schsch⟩ appears in German; for example, in the name Eschscholtz (and thus is the scientific name Eschscholtzia of the California poppy).
Guest editor-authors have included Colin Banks, John Cage, Adrian Frutiger, Dick Higgins, Richard Kostelanetz, Craig Saper, and George Steiner.
In some of the Dene languages of the Northwest Territories in Canada, specifically North Slavey, South Slavey, Tłı̨chǫ and Dëne Sųłıné, all instances of i are undotted to avoid confusion with tone-marked vowels í or ì.
These prefatory prayers are invariably written in Pazend because of the need for "accurate" pronunciation.
That is, /i/ is written with a ы rather than a и to show that the г is pronounced /ʁ/ rather than /ɡ/, then the ь is added to show that the ы is pronounced as if it were a и, so the discontinuous digraph ы...ь is used here to write the vowel /i/.
The use of the Avestan alphabet to write Middle Persian required the addition of one symbol to the Avestan alphabet: This character, to represent the /l/ phoneme of Middle Persian, had not previously been needed.
Unicode standard version 15.0 specifies codes for 9 Indic scripts in Chapter 12 titled "South and Central Asia-I, Official Scripts of India".
In these works, he criticises the contemporary spelling practices of his day as chaotic and illogical, and argues for a radically reformed orthography on purely phonological principles.
Volapük has no official method for avoiding the diacritic, but sometimes they are substituted with ay, oy and uy.
The Szarvas inscription refers to the inscription on a bone needle case found near Szarvas in southeastern Hungary and dating from the second half of the 8th century, the "Late Avar" period (700–791).
For example, August derives from the name of Imperator Augustus, who named himself after the word augustus, whence English august came.
Brihadaranyaka Upanishad The eighth brahmana of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad focuses on the concept of the imperishable (akshara).
The Unicode collation algorithm (UCA) is an algorithm defined in Unicode Technical Report #10, which is a customizable method to produce binary keys from strings representing text in any writing system and language that can be represented with Unicode.
Additionally, she has worked with Margaret James on the Central Arrernte language versions of the Honey Ant Readers.
Thousands were forced to abandon their homes and land, including Christians, Yazidis (given the choice of conversion or death), Shi'a Muslims, and Muslims loyal to other Islamic nations considered apostates by ISIL.
This is due to the many computer fonts and character sets (such as CP1252) that unified the characters into a single code point, and the difficulty of software distinguishing which character is intended by a user's typing.
The following changes were made to the spelling of loanwords: The sound /i/ would be spelled as ⟨i⟩ in open syllables: individu ("individual"), naïveteit ("naïveté"), artikel ("article").
A multigraph (or pleograph) is a sequence of letters that behaves as a unit and is not the sum of its parts, such as English ⟨ch⟩ (typically pronounced ) or French ⟨eau⟩ (pronounced [o]).
One notable exception is in signs for neighborhood associations (町内会, chōnaikai) – the name of neighborhoods often end in "...
It didn't allow time for ceremony and teaching old ways, But nobody asked them." She was allowed to go home at night.
Based on the life of the Carthaginian lady Sophonisba and inspired by ancient tragedies, it was perhaps the first tragedy in early modern times to show deference to the classic rules.
Classic works of literature are typically printed without any changes, unless they are editions specifically intended for use in schools.
Examples of featural systems This is a small list of examples of featural writing systems by date of creation.
(Arabic: لَعِبَ كَثِيرًا؛ فَٱتَّسَخَتْ مَلَابِسُهُ.) It can be used between two clauses, where the second is a reason for the first.
The cantillation accent however is generally not typed, as it plays a completely different role and can occur in the middle of words (it does not mark any word separation), or marked using a different interlinear notation if needed (such as superscripts or other notational symbols).
Vedanta As part of basic instructions of Shiksha and Sanskrit grammar, it is explained that among the word-entities, both, Aksara and Brahman stand out as especially important because both refer to a special form of ritual word.
In rhetoric, a parenthesis (pl.: parentheses; from the Ancient Greek word παρένθεσις parénthesis 'injection, insertion', literally '(a) putting in beside') or parenthetical phrase is an explanatory or qualifying word, phrase, clause, or sentence inserted into a passage.
Reception Notes and references See also English Spelling Society List of reforms of the English language ENGLISH SPELLING SOCIETY Personal View 15 REGSPEL by Stephen Linstead (2014) English accents and their implications for spelling reform J.C.
Word recognition, according to Literacy Information and Communication System (LINCS) is "the ability of a reader to recognize written words correctly and virtually effortlessly".
Kotava uses accented á, é, í, ú in the 1st person singular of the verbal conjugation to express stress.
See also Kaige revision, group of Greek-language Septuagint Bible versions that frequently use Koine Greek: και γε [kai ge] ('and indeed').
Differences between the old and the new orthography The soft sign ⟨ь⟩ /ʲ/ is no longer written when denoting assimilation of 'softness': ⟨песня⟩, ⟨свет⟩, instead of ⟨песьня⟩, ⟨сьвет⟩.
The word mineso in גדול עוני מנשוא (Genesis 4:13) is written in Sephardic Torah scrolls in plene scriptum, with an additional 'waw', but in Yemenite Torah scrolls, the same word mineso is written in defective scriptum, without a 'waw' (i.e.
A codification of the rules of Russian orthography and punctuation and the Spelling Dictionary of the Russian Language were published in 1956 but only a few minor orthographic changes were introduced at that time.
If the isolation form were adopted as the underlying form, the information that there is a final "t" would be lost, and it would then be difficult to explain the appearance of the "t" in the inflected forms.
In many cases, only these substituted characters are accepted by computer programs, and the Unicode angle brackets are not recognised (for instance, in HTML tags).
They use U+FE00 VARIATION SELECTOR-1 (VS01) and U+FE01 VARIATION SELECTOR-2 (VS02): Orientation Quotation marks and other punctuation have expected differences in behaviour in vertical and horizontal text.
However, due to differing opinions among the participants, the Congress spelling did not produce any resolution on the use of both phonemes, and opened the issue for public interpretations.
An important reason for grouping is that it allows rapid judgement of the number of digits, via telling at a glance ("subitizing") rather than counting (contrast, for example, 100 000 000 with 100000000 for one hundred million).
See Neutralization and archiphonemes below, particularly the example of the occurrence of the three English nasals before stops.
This system was not quite a syllabary, because each Japanese syllable could be represented by one of several characters, but from it were derived two syllabaries still in use today.
Another difference is the representation of the phoneme ʀ, instead of simply r as in West Norse, where the ʀ phoneme merged with r earlier.
Punctuation The Manchu alphabet has two kinds of punctuation: two dots (᠉), analogous to a period; and one dot (᠈), analogous to a comma.
The broken bar does not appear to have any clearly identified uses distinct from those of the vertical bar.
The sole purpose of the site was to spread an April Fool's Day joke regarding the Governor of Idaho issuing a supposed ban on the sale of music by Justin Bieber.
The purpose of the soft hyphen here is to distinguish it from any regular hyphen that might have been part of the original spelling of the word.
However, for practical purposes filenames behave as case-insensitive as far as users and most software are concerned.
Besides a few examples (recce, soccer, Speccy), ⟨cc⟩ fits neatly with the regular rules of ⟨c⟩: Before ⟨i e y⟩, the second ⟨c⟩ is soft while the first is hard.
There is no standard variety of Scottish Gaelic; although statements below are about all or most dialects, the north-western dialects (Outer Hebrides, Skye and the Northwest Highlands) are discussed more than others as they represent the majority of speakers.
Overstriking of longer sections of text, such as in 123, can also be produced in many text processors as text markup as a special form of understriking.
Decline Over time, the current system of rapid silent reading for information replaced the older, slower, and more dramatic performance-based reading, and word dividers and punctuation became more beneficial to text.
Encodings and definitions Soft hyphen (SHY) characters in coded characters sets, roughly in chronological order: EBCDIC placed a SHY character (known there as a "syllable hyphen") at position 202 (0xCA hexadecimal).
In 19th century the word would be dautsher to denote a Germanizer and his way of speaking was dautsherish.
The early Dhivehi scripts fell into the abugida category, while the more recent Thaana has characteristics of both an abugida and a true alphabet.
It was translated into French by Mellin de Saint-Gelais, and was performed with great acclaim in 1556 at the Château de Blois.
We have cum to deddicate a portion of that feeld, as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives, that that nation might liv.
In linguistics, the donor principle refers primarily to the observance of the original spelling of a loanword from the original ("donor") language.
There are abbreviations for common prefixes and suffixes; for example, uppercase ⟨N⟩ represents enter- or inter- so "entertainment" is written as Ntn- and "interrogation" is reduced to Ngj.
Canada also has an official mark symbol, ⟨Ⓜ⟩, to indicate that a name or design used by Canadian public authorities is protected.
In Adamawa, the convention was that vowels in the beginning of the word would be marked with a diacritic and the 'ayn character, which usually signified a glottal stop, and normal use of diacritics in all other contexts.
Pronunciations can then arise that are similar to older pronunciations or that can even be completely new pronunciations that are suggested by the spelling but never occurred before.
John Douglas Chesswas MBE (1919 – 28 February 2009) was a British author, linguist and policy advisor in Uganda.
Some authors, most notably Tom Wolfe, are known for their unashamedly liberal use of the exclamation mark.
This behavior allows users to decide themselves whether they want to use the key, or to disable it to prevent accidental activation.
Additionally, in Japanese, the logographic (Chinese-derived) reading is called the on'yomi reading, and the morphographic reading (native Japanese) is called the kun'yomi reading.
See also General Alphabet of Cameroon Languages Africa Alphabet African Reference Alphabet Dinka alphabet ISO 6438 Lepsius Standard Alphabet Vietnamese alphabet == Notes and references ==
It can also be used to mean "untitled" or author or title withheld – as seen, for example, in some editions of Album for the Young by composer Robert Schumann (№ 21, 26, and 30).
Schwa The Congress Spelling also consists of 6 vowel sounds represented by 5 letters; ⟨a⟩, ⟨e⟩, ⟨i⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨u⟩, with ⟨e⟩ representing both /e/ and /ə/ sounds.
Parenthetical expressions are usually delimited by round brackets (also known as parentheses), square brackets, dashes, or commas.
'limb, member of a body') did not refer to punctuation, but to a member or section of a complete thought or passage; see also Colon (rhetoric).
The change happened in Italy at about the same time: Giambattista Bodoni also designed his Bodoni typeface without long s.
It was first used in a published work by Joseph Roumanille in 1853, and then by Frédéric Mistral in 1854.
Capital letters may be used to differentiate between a set of objects and a particular example of that object.
In Americanist phonetic notation, the middot is a more common variant of the colon ⟨꞉⟩ used to indicate vowel length.
Although the word common is subjective depending on the situation, the focus is on general writing, rather than in a specific field.
Throughout history, each independently invented writing system gradually emerged from a system of proto-writing, where a small number of ideographs were used in a manner incapable of fully encoding language, and thus lacking the ability to express a broad range of ideas.
Its final form represents 800 but this is rarely used, Tav written twice (400+400) being used instead.
Although the Old Manchu script underwent reforms and improvements to form the New Manchu script, it still inherited a series of flaws from the Old Uyghur-style Mongolian script.
Writing is done with a bamboo brush or animal hair dipped in white, black, red, blue, green, and yellow-colored ink.
Mundi was a merchant script used by Marwari and Gujarati businessmen and bookkeepers for recording accounts and correspondences.
The original sound value is a voiceless bilabial plosive /p/ and it retains this value in most Semitic languages, except for Arabic, where the sound /p/ changed into the voiceless labiodental fricative /f/, carrying with it the pronunciation of the letter.
However, if nya is initial or medial, its dots will be three dots below instead of three dots above, similarly how the Persian letter pe works on medial or initial form due to its similar looking.
A similar convention for PostScript files calls for the first line to begin with %!, called "percent-bang".
The phoneme is not native to Persian, Ottoman Turkish, or Urdu, and its pronunciation in Arabic loanwords in those languages is not distinguishable from س /s/ or ث /θ/, all of which are pronounced [s].
It is altogether fitting and propper that we should do this, but in a larger senss we cannot deddicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallo this ground.
This variant (briefly) replaced the continuous vertical bar in the 1967 version (only) of the ASCII standard.
The Africa Alphabet influenced the development of orthographies for many African languages, serving "as the basis for the transcription" of about 60 by one count.
This analogical concept is associated with the autonomy hypothesis which holds that writing is a system in its own right and should be studied independently from speech.
Modern Language Association (MLA) Handbook According to the 9th edition of the Modern Language Association Handbook, the following title capitalization rules should be applied: Capitalize the first word of the title/heading and of any subtitle/subheading.
Ordering Numerical and chronological Strings representing numbers may be sorted based on the values of the numbers that they represent.
In some calculators that use dot matrix displays, a factorial product sign ("!") can be used to add emphasis.
His, "A Projected Uniform Yiddish Orthography" (Weinreich 1930), was not written with the pointing that was to be prescribed in the SYO and introduces a character that was entirely absent from the previous repertoire.
Since the late 1990s, Bulgarian authorities have switched to the so-called Streamlined System avoiding the use of diacritics and optimized for compatibility with English.
In 1904 the National Language Society was founded to promote Demotic in education and public life generally, the first organized group to do so.
French typewriters have a dead key for the circumflex that can be used in combination with any other key.
For this purpose, he introduced six new phonetic consonant symbols for the sounds ð, θ, tʃ, dʒ, ʃ and syllabic l, as well as a system of diacritics for vowels.
The first two are respectively pronounced as /t͡ʃʰ/ and /d͡ʒ/ in the first stratum but /ɕ/ and /ʑ/ in the third stratum.
The section sign (§) is a typographical symbol for referencing individually numbered sections of a document; it is frequently used when citing sections of a legal code.
Thus, lowercase joden, christenen en moslims (Jews, Christians, and Muslims) are religious groups, but uppercase Joden, Europeanen en Marokkanen (Jews, Europeans, and Moroccans) are ethnic or cultural groups, or nationalities.
For writing Saraiki, an extended Shahmukhi is used that includes 4 additional letters for the implosive consonants (ٻ, ڄ, ݙ, ڳ).
In 1740, Trediakovsky received a physical beating at the hands of the imperial minister Artemy Volynsky.
Zhuang In the standard Zhuang language, written in the Latin script, the last letter of every syllable is typically silent due to it representing the tone of the syllable.
On the other hand, Morris Swadesh defined "phonetic orthography" or "phonetic alphabet" as a writing system to make a phonetic record using symbols for "selected characteristic points in the total range of possible speech sounds", this is more commonly referred to as "phonetic transcription".
For example, the Chinese character 妈 (meaning "mother") is sorted as a six-stroke character under the three-stroke primary radical 女 (meaning "woman").
The Fernaig manuscript (Scottish Gaelic: Làmh-sgrìobhainn Fheàrnaig or Làmh-sgrìobhainn MhicRath) is a document containing approximately 4,200 lines of verse consisting largely of political and religious themes.
Protoscholastic writing refers to the period in the Middle Ages when writing styles changed from liturgical models, mere adjuncts to the recitation of prayer, to a more complex form.
A series of underscores (like __________ ) may be used to reserve a blank space in text that is later to be filled in by hand, such as on a paper form.
Differences in orthographic usage lasted until 1927, when the government of President Carlos Ibáñez del Campo, through Decree 3,876 of the Ministry of Public Instruction, restored the academic norms of the RAE in education and in official documents as of October 12 of that year.
Such instances are sometimes referred to by way of the modern German loanword Begriffsrunen (singular Begriffsrune), but the descriptive term "ideographic runes" is also used.
A vertical bar can be used to separate variables from fixed parameters in a function, for example f ( x | μ , σ ) {\displaystyle f(x|\mu ,\sigma )} , or in the notation for elliptic integrals.
This aids both comprehension and pronunciation if both are relatively adjacent in a text, or if a word is itself ambiguous in meaning.
Other words possible with the traditional "BEghILOSZ" set include "loose", "shell", "BEIgE", "gOBBLE", "gOOgLE", and many others.
For example, in some Tiro Typeworks fonts, small caps glyphs are 30% larger than x-height, and 70% the height of full capitals.
Guillemet is a diminutive of the French name Guillaume, apparently after the French printer and punchcutter Guillaume Le Bé (1525–1598), though he did not invent the symbols: they first appear in a 1527 book printed by Josse Bade.
In pre-Islamic Arabia, linguistic diversity was more common, as attested by tens of thousands of pre-Islamic Arabian inscriptions, with many languages being spoken in different regions and periods of time.
New Hart's Rules (Oxford University Press, 2005) advises "List names prefixed with Mc, Mac, or Mc as if they were spelled Mac".
Additionally, it is common for bands with vowelless names (a process colourfully known as "disemvoweling") to use all caps, with prominent examples including STRFKR, MSTRKRFT, PWR BTTM, SBTRKT, JPNSGRLS (now known as Hotel Mira), BLK JKS, MNDR, and DWNTWN.
History and implementations Functionality to sort by natural sort order is now widely available in software libraries for many programming languages and operating systems.
Noun class distinctions are wholly uninfluenced by literal, physical characteristics, and this covert pronominal class marking structure may have resulted from language contact.
Rarely in Assyrian cuneiform, but commonly in the later cuneiform Ugaritic alphabet, a vertical stroke 𒑰 was used to separate words.
Aron Dotan has dealt with many of the arguments, including Klar's, and also argued that the approval of Maimonides is evidence against the claim.
Dita was influenced by the traditional iconography of various Malian communities, while Ba's system is a cursive script which Dalby compares to the handwritten Latin alphabet.
⟨j⟩ (outside of the Limia Baixa region), ⟨k⟩, ⟨w⟩, and ⟨y⟩ are only used in loanwords, and are not part of the alphabet.
Swamp Thing, for example, has traditionally been depicted using "crusty" yellow speech balloons and dialogue heavily laced with ellipses, suggesting a gravelly voice that only speaks with great effort.
Biography Butler was born into a poor family in Buckinghamshire, South East England, but became a boy chorister at Magdalen College, Oxford at the age of eight.
Primary source 19th and 20th century manuscripts from the Naxi people, Yunnan Province, China; only pictographic writing system still in use anywhere in the world.
He was ordained in 1637 and returned to Brittany in 1640 and was assigned again to Quimper, succeeding Venerable Dom Michael le Nobletz.
While the word phoneme refers to the sound itself, phonogram instead refers to the written representation of the sound.
Some researchers believe that the Greek alphabet may also have played a role in the origin of the other Paleohispanic scripts.
For this reason, some programmers prefer to treat abbreviations as if they were words and write "oldHtmlFile", "parseDbmXml" or "sqlServer".
Following independence, the government of Guinea adopted rules of transcription for the languages of Guinea based on the characters and diacritic combinations available on typewriters of that period.
y for i, r for ṛ etc.) 1.1.71 ādir antyena sahetā which says that a sequence with an element at the beginning (e.g.
For example, in the English word high, ⟨igh⟩ is a grapheme representing the phoneme —while ⟨igh⟩ is written using three letters potentially treated as distinct in other contexts, they cannot be analyzed separately in this case, as the intended sound is only indicated when read as a single unit.
The manuscript was composed between 1688 and 1693 by Donnchadh MacRath in Wester Ross (Scottish Gaelic: Ros an Iar) and is notable for the author's unique orthography which is, like the more famous Book of the Dean of Lismore, based upon English, rather than Classical Gaelic, phonetics.
Some German publications, especially dictionaries, also use a Warenzeichen grapheme, (U+1F12E 🄮 CIRCLED WZ), which is informative and independent of the actual protection status of the name.
In the inscription, the third symbol of the third row (from left) could be considered a descendant of the ideograms in Turkic languages.
Only one rule concerning exceptions was made (the so-called Dandelion Rule): paardebloem (dandelion) and vliegezwam (fly agaric) became paardenbloem and vliegenzwam for consistency with other similar compounds, e.g.
Yakut дь /ɟ/, нь /ɲ/ See also Languages using Cyrillic List of Cyrillic letters Bigram Diacritic Diphthong Typographic ligature Notes == References ==
It was created by Stephen Linstead and chosen by the International English Spelling Congress (IESC) as the preferred alternative to English orthography in March 2021.
In relation with Arabic Hebrew צ tsadi corresponds to the letters ظ ẓāʾ, ص ṣād, and ض ḍād in Arabic Examples ظ ẓāʾ: the word for "thirst" in Classical Arabic is ظمأ ẓamaʾ and צמא tsama in Hebrew.
An option of just a hyphen-minus (followed by a space) may be recognized in lieu of a filename and indicates that stdin is to be read.
Maimonides accepted the views of ben Asher only in regard to open and closed sections, but apparently admired his work generally and helped to establish and spread his authority.
Austroasiatic languages Khmer script (for Khmer language) Khom script (for Bahnaric languages) Chữ Nôm (historical writing for Vietnamese language) Austronesian languages Most Austronesian languages use Latin script today.
For example, a word kab may be written as if it were kaba, and keb would be written as if it were kebe.
Older or portable typewriters often did not have the exclamation mark; to replicate it, users typed a period, backspaced, and then typed an apostrophe.
Phrases It is thought that the phrase "to a T" is derived from the word tittle because long before "to a T" became popular, the phrase "to a tittle" was used.
It was officially adopted by the then Institute of National Language (Filipino: Surian ng Wikang Pambansa) and the National Commission on Culture and the Arts (Filipino: Pambasang Komission Para sa Kultura at mga Pambasa).
In mathematics and, more often, physics, a dagger denotes the Hermitian adjoint of an operator; for example, A† denotes the adjoint of A.
Vowel and consonant combinations The intervocalic letters ɣ/g, and y has in some combinations come to help form long vowels, namely: Long a with: aɣa, iɣa, iya.
Spelling patterns usually follow certain conventions but nearly every sound can be legitimately spelled with different letters or letter combinations.
However, there still is ⟨gi⟩ which is considered a digraph on its own, shortened to ⟨g⟩ before ⟨i⟩, even in the word gì.
However, according to professor Mark Seidenberg, while SL is necessary for students with special needs (e.g., to overcome dyslexia), it may not be required for the general student population beyond the early literacy years.
Franz Rosenthal, "Das Reichsaramäische," in Die aramaistische Forschung seit Theodor Nöldeke’s Veröffentlichungen (Leiden 1939; reprint 1964), pp.
The (freestanding) underscore character, _, also called a low line, or low dash, originally appeared on the typewriter so that underscores could be typed.
In Australia and Canada, the comma is typically avoided in non-academic publications unless its absence produces ambiguity.
Ben Naphtali and Ben Asher Ben Naphtali wrote a Bible with vowels, accents, and Masorah, which differed in some respects from that of his contemporary and rival, Aaron ben Moses ben Asher (generally called Ben Asher).
Since the character was originally not available in all code pages and keyboard layouts, ANSI C can transcribe it in form of the trigraph ??!, which, outside string literals, is equivalent to the | character.
A classmate of Isaac Jogues and Gabriel Lalemant, he aspired to become a missionary to the peoples of Canada.
Instead, multiple scripts coexisted, often associated with specific regions, polities, or cultural traditions.
King's College, Cambridge uses this convention in the service booklet for the Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols.
From 1803 he was the member, then secretary, of the head-office of that university's literary faculty.
History Zalgo text was pioneered in 2004 by a Something Awful forum member who created image macros of glitched or distorted cartoon characters exclaiming "Zalgo!" The text in the images was often distorted, and the style of the distortion became popularised as "Zalgo text".
File managers such as Windows Explorer (since Windows XP) and Midnight Commander utilize natural sorting by default to display file lists.
One common solution, such as the one used in Wikipedia's MediaWiki software, is to use xx to escape the ux to ŭ conversion, e.g.
From 1818 he became a member of the Teylers First Society and continued in that position until his death.
The text is set up in a strict literary style and works with typical elements like parallelism and chiasmus as already employed in the earlier Babylonian incantation type, for example in the incantation series Maqlû and Šurpu.
Identification numbers The IMWA has more than 27,000 elements that are represented by unique identification numbers.
In 1932, the Egyptian Ministry of Education released a manifesto titled Crown Letters and Punctuation Marks and Their Positions of Use, which thoroughly explained the script and was very likely the first book ever written in Crown script.
Uses The Yakima practical alphabet is currently used in research, language teaching, and language revitalization efforts.
The default isolated hamza form (Malay: hamzah setara) is the second least common form of hamza, whereas another form unique to the Jawi script, the three-quarter high hamza (Malay: hamzah tiga suku) is most commonly used in daily Jawi writing.
The logo of the National Endowment for the Humanities incorporates eight exclamation marks and eight question marks; although their main strokes are separate, they all share the same dot, as in some variants of interrobangs.
Continued use in late classical texts Aristarchos's semeia were adopted early on by scholars in Rome, and became the standard philological signs for centuries to follow.
Except for COMMAND.COM, all other parts of the operating system accept both characters in a path, but the Microsoft convention remains to use a backslash, and APIs that return paths use backslashes.
In an era when Greek texts were typically written scripta continua, the enotikon served to show that a series of letters should be read as a single word rather than misunderstood as two separate words.
In Middle Iranian scripts derived from the Aramaic scripts (such as the Pahlavi scripts), all logograms are heterograms coming from Aramaic.
It is only when en dashes are used in setting off parenthetical expressions – such as this one – that they take spaces around them.
All these diacritics, however, are frequently omitted in writing, and English is the only major modern European language that does not have diacritics in common usage.
Origins All the Paleohispanic scripts, with the exception of the Greco-Iberian alphabet, share a common distinctive typological characteristic: they represent syllabic values for the stop consonants, and monophonemic values for the rest of consonants and vowels.
See also Mikhail Lomonosov, who created the basis of the modern Russian literary language == References ==
This table lists 3,120 standard characters in the List of Commonly Used Standard Chinese Characters and their corresponding traditional Chinese characters and variant characters, arranged in three columns: the first column contains the standard characters and their serial numbers.
The New Fowler's Modern English Usage describes the use of the comma splice by the authors Elizabeth Jolley and Iris Murdoch: We are all accustomed to the ...
Hoz, Javier de (1989): «El desarrollo de la escritura y las lenguas de la zona meridional», Tartessos, pp.
The orthographic depth of an alphabetic orthography indicates the degree to which a written language deviates from simple one-to-one letter–phoneme correspondence.
The debate on traditional Chinese characters and simplified Chinese characters is an ongoing dispute concerning Chinese orthography among users of Chinese characters.
The Romanized Popular Alphabet created for the Hmong languages includes three tetragraphs: nplh, ntsh, and ntxh, which represent complex consonants.
Examples The term Garshuni has often been extended to refer to writing any language other than Syriac in the Syriac script and even to writing Syriac in other scripts.
This spelling would not be seen well by the more conservative, who saw it as destroying symbols of "Bulgarianness".
The Elements of Style notes an exception to the semicolon rule, preferring a comma when the clauses are "very short and alike in form," or when the sentence's tone is "easy and conversational." For example: The gate swung apart, the bridge fell, the portcullis was drawn up.
The hexagraph ⟨oidhea⟩, for example, where the ⟨o⟩ and ⟨a⟩ mark the consonants as broad, represents the same sound (approximately the vowel in English write) as the trigraph ⟨adh⟩, and with the same effect on neighbouring consonants.
For example, the pound sign ⟨£⟩, is L {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {L}}} (a blackletter ⟨L⟩), with a cross bar.
In a featural writing system, the shapes of the symbols (such as letters) are not arbitrary but encode phonological features of the phonemes that they represent.
Navy moved away from an all caps-based messaging system, which was begun with 1850s-era teleprinters that had only uppercase letters.
In writing down the language, he used the Latin alphabet and English-style orthographical conventions.
The term "alternating case" has been used as early as the 1970s, in several studies on word identification.
Its forms are called tie, double breve, enotikon or papyrological hyphen, ligature tie, and undertie.
See also Multigraph (orthography) Digraph (orthography) Tetragraph Pentagraph Hexagraph == References ==
Letters The collation of letters in the Abakada alphabet closely follows that of other Latin alphabets, besides the digraph Ng being inserted after N and the placement of K When enumerating each consonant, it is always pronounced with an ⟨-a⟩ suffix (i.e., "ba", "ka", etc.).
This list includes only a few homophones although incorrect use of homophones is a very common error; the following words from the list are all correct English words, though often incorrectly used in place of their homophones: Spell checkers do not detect incorrect use of homophones.
At around 1550, he began to teach, and noticed that the particular spellings of word would cause disagreement amongst teachers and students.
In an age where Hebrew grammatical principles were not considered worthy of independent study, he was the first to take this discipline seriously.
It is sometimes also called antilambda because the sign resembles a Greek capital letter lambda (Λ) turned upon its side.
See also -- Dash (—) Box-drawing characters including ─ (U+2500), useful for drawing horizontal lines Hyphen Soft hyphen Explanatory notes References External links The dictionary definition of - at Wiktionary
If the hamza is medial: If a long vowel or diphthong precedes, the seat of the hamza is determined mostly by what follows: If i or u follows, the hamza is written over yāʾ or wāw, accordingly.
Stress accent In the later development of the language, the ancient pitch accent was replaced by an intensity or stress accent, making the three types of accent identical, and the /h/ sound became silent.
Syllabograms in the Maya script most frequently take the form of V (vowel) or CV (consonant-vowel) syllables of which approximately 83 are known.
Conversely, in the languages of Western Europe, the dot (formally, tittle) on a lower-case ⟨i⟩ is not a glyph in itself because it does not convey any distinction, and an |ı| in which the dot has been accidentally omitted is still likely to be recognized correctly.
Orthography of Luganda Chesswas was the author of "The Essentials of Luganda" (1954); the third (1963) and fourth (1967) editions of which are commonly used as a textbook for courses in Luganda language.
In Bodo and Dogri written in Devanagari, it marks high tone and low-rising tone on short vowels, respectively.
The identity of this rune was debated by scholars until a photograph of it was republished that, according to runologist Bernard Mees, clearly indicates it to have been the rune ᛟ (*Ōþala).
Rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) reading Involves presenting the words in a sentence one word at a time at the same location on the display screen, at a specified eccentricity; for studying the timing of vision.
For example, websites like Shameless Spelling offer extensive resources and case studies on how SWI can be implemented for a diverse range of learners, from struggling readers to those with special learning needs.
In the eye-movement study by Tinker and Patterson, the principal difference in oculomotor patterns between lower case and all capitals was the very large increase in number of fixation pauses for reading the all-capital print.
This distinction helps re-use of already formatted text, when line breaks and soft hyphens inserted during word wrapping have to be removed to convert the text back into its unformatted form.
Because he applied his system to his publications of the Ɛpistola, the Sofonisba and Il Castellano, his research also serves as a valuable source for the differences between the Tuscan pronunciation and that of the courtly language, which he advocated as an enrichment of the Italian language.
In addition, switching to all caps may make text appear hectoring and obnoxious for cultural reasons, since all-capitals is often used in transcribed speech to indicate that the speaker is shouting.
Diple (textual symbol) – Symbol used in margins of Greek manuscripts to draw attention to something in text Marginalia – Marks made in margins of book pages List of proofreader's marks General Punctuation – Unicode block containing punctuation, spacing, and formatting characters == References ==
Benno Landsberger, "Zu den aramäischen Beschwörungen in Keilschrift," Archiv für Orientforschung 12, 1938, pp.
Editor Greil Marcus, in a talk at Case Western Reserve University, described scare quotes as "the enemy", adding that they "kill narrative, they kill story-telling...
ค (A), ท (n), น (u), บ (U), ป (J), พ (W), ร (S), and ล (a) are among the Thai glyphs that can closely resemble Latin.
Latin-script pentagraphs List of Latin-script pentagraphs Cyrillic-script pentagraphs In Cyrillic used for languages of the Caucasus, there are a couple five-letter sequences used for 'strong' (typically transcribed in the IPA as geminate, and doubled in Cyrillic) labialized consonants.
See also Digraph (orthography) Trigraph (orthography) Pentagraph Hexagraph Heptagraph Multigraph (orthography) List of Cyrillic letters Unigraph (orthography) == References ==
It also frequently uses circumflexes, and occasionally uses diaereses, acute accents and grave accents, on its seven vowels (⟨a, e, i, o, u, w, y⟩), but accented characters are not regarded as separate letters of the alphabet.
37–41 Vékony, Gábor (1985): Késő népvándorláskori rovásfeliratok [Runic inscriptions from the Late Migration Period].
Since this can escape the next character, which may itself be a ?, the primary modern use may be for code obfuscation.
Jamie Metsala, co-author of the Right to Read inquiry report, believes that Structured Literacy may have an important impact on how literacy will be taught in Canada.
While there are remains of Viking runestones from the Viking Age, today they are rare, and vary in the use of orthography depending on when they were created.
The most common way for characters to be transposed is when a user is touch typing at a speed that makes them input a later character before an earlier one; or simply fails to keep the correct order in their internal memory while transcribing the text.
In 1997, the organization Batiáuan ("sentry") said that the major obstacle to popularizing Kapampangan was the intense conflict over orthography.
Other examples of garshunography include aljamiado, the use of Arabic script to write Romance languages; Judaeo-Spanish, which was originally written in the Hebrew alphabet; and Yiddish, a variety of High German originally written in Hebrew.
Furthermore, universally, in all documents, the letters ث se and ذ zel are used as well, but representing phonemes [θ] and [ð] respectively as they're used in Arabic, and not [s] and [z] as in Ottoman Turkish and Persian.
As with any pedagogical method, the success of SWI depends on how well it is tailored to individual learning contexts and the needs of students.
Lava mobiles reported that Tamil and Malayalam are the most popular on their phones, more than even Hindi.
The quotation marks 「...」, 『...』 and 〝...〟 rotate 90 degrees, as follows: See also General Punctuation, for variation selectors and CJK behaviour of the Latin quotation marks ‘...’ and “...”.
Use in Ancient Greek The first way to divide sentences into groups in Ancient Greek was the original παράγραφος [parágraphos], which was a horizontal line in the margin to the left of the main text.
History The first recorded use of the term scare quotes referring to punctuation marks was by the philosopher Elizabeth Anscombe in her 1956 essay "Aristotle and the Sea Battle", published in Mind.
Prefixes ending with -з/с underwent a change: now all of them (except с-) end with -с before voiceless consonants and with -з before voiced consonants or vowels (разбить, разораться, but расступиться).
Typography The asterisk is used to call out a footnote, especially when there is only one on the page.
French In French, as well as marking exclamations or indicating astonishment, the exclamation mark is commonly used to mark orders or requests: Viens ici !
These are a type of abstraction, analogous to the phonemes of spoken languages; different physical forms of written symbols are considered to represent the same grapheme if the differences between them are not significant for meaning.
The iNiQUiTY BBS software based on Renegade had a feature to support two variants of this automatically: either all vowels would be uppercase or all vowels would be lowercase, with the consonants as the other case.
Education after elementary school includes not as many new characters as new words, which are mostly combinations of two or more already learned characters.
The Vietnamese tilde, also known by its Latin name of apex, was a curved diacritic used in the 17th century to mark final nasalization in the early Vietnamese alphabet.
Chemistry Parentheses are used in chemistry to denote a repeated substructure within a molecule, e.g.
Semasiography ('writing with signs', from Greek semasia 'signification' + graphia 'writing') is the use of symbols, called semasiographs, to "communicate information without the necessary intercession of forms of speech".
The English consonant sound represented in IPA as has these homophones: car, kill, account, bacchanal, character, back, acquaint, lacquer, sacque, biscuit, lough, rake, Sikh, walk, Iraq, liquor, and plaque.
A research study of the available methods and recommendations of proposed standard was released by Broadband Wireless Consortium of India (BWCI).
Thus, in the 1940s, the writer Dzhansi Kimonko developed his own version of the Udege Cyrillic alphabet (much later it began to be used in book publishing by Saint Petersburg publishing houses without changes), but at that time his initiative did not receive support from the authorities.
Logograms are sometimes conflated with ideograms, symbols which graphically represent abstract ideas; most linguists now reject this characterization.
In Ottoman Turkish, the choice of these two letters were standardized, with the former being adjacent to front vowels and the latter adjactent to back vowels.
For instance, Polyphylla (Xerasiobia) alba is a way to cite the species Polyphylla alba while also mentioning that it is in the subgenus Xerasiobia.
Therefore, ⟨sekolah⟩ ('school') can also be spelled as ⟨sekola⟩ and ⟨Eropah⟩ ('Europe') can also be spelled as ⟨Eropa⟩.
Modern examples: I have the bed still, it is in every way suitable for the old house where I live now (E.
Note that this rule relates to the fact that stressed о after ж, ц, ч, ш and щ is pronounced the same as the always-stressed letter ё after the same letters.
Furthermore, loanwords assimilated into the Ukrainian language are often written according to their pronunciation, rather than necessarily following the rule of nine, such as бурмистер (but бургомістр), вимпел, єхидна, імбир, кипарис, and лиман.
His goal was to create a one-to-one correspondence between phonemes and graphemes and to simplify the nineteenth-century orthography of American Spanish, which was characterized by certain inconsistencies: Letters that graphically represent identical phonemes: The sound /k/, represented by c, k, qu.
Edward Catich is noted for the fullest development of the thesis that the inscribed Roman square capitals owed their form, including the serifs, wholly to the use of the flat brush, rather than to the exigencies of the chisel or other stone cutting tools.
Doubled oo is instead both used in a few words to mark the vowel as short, and to distinguish it from u.
In Tartessian script, vowels were always written after the plosives, but they were redundant — or at nearly so — and thus it seems they were dropped when the script passed to the Iberians.
In literature In Jaroslav Hašek's The Good Soldier Švejk, the § symbol is used repeatedly to mean "bureaucracy".
The modifier letter apostrophe (ʼ) is a letter found in Unicode encoding, used primarily for various glottal sounds.
Bello’s thesis was based on the idea that the use of etymology as a linguistic criterion was pointless—reading and, in general, the use of a language are in no way linked to knowledge of its historical development—and, in view of the problems it caused, contrary to rational use.
Churchill notes that name variations were far from unusual in the Elizabethan era: The name of Sir Walter Raleigh was written by his contemporaries either Raleigh, Raliegh, Ralegh, Raghley, Rawley, Rawly, Rawlie, Rawleigh, Raulighe, Raughlie, or Rayly.
Geschichte der Fabeldichtung in England bis zu John Gay (1726): Nebst Neudruck von Bullokars "Fables of Æsop" 1585, "Booke at Large" 1580, "Bref Grammar for English" 1586, und "Pamphlet for Grammar" 1586.
By contrast, some other sounds would cause a change in meaning if substituted: for example, substitution of the sound [t] would produce the different word still, and that sound must therefore be considered to represent a different phoneme (the phoneme /t/).
They occur in Irish orthography, and many of them can be analysed as a tetragraph followed by the vowels ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩ on either side to indicate that the neighbouring consonants are palatalized ("slender").
Punctuation was also included because, in fact, there were no set rules for Arabic writing and everyone wrote as they pleased; as such, punctuation was just thrown anywhere into a sentence for aesthetic purposes rather than simplifying sentences to make concepts easier to grasp for the reader.
Romani in North Macedonia Romani in North Macedonia is written with the following alphabet: This alphabet is used in the educational system in North Macedonia for Romani-speaking students.
Gallery Later influence Renaissance Square capitals were greatly respected by artisans of the Renaissance such as Geoffroy Tory and Felice Feliciano.
During the 1996 MacHack conference, the Natural Order Mac OS System Extension was conceived and implemented overnight as an entry for the Best Hack contest.
It in turn has several application areas within which it is specialised: SignWriting, for sign languages, the most developed so far.
When Apple developed "a system-wide spelling checker" for Mac OS X so that "the operating system took over spelling fixes," it was a first: one "didn't have to maintain a separate spelling checker for each" program.
Similarly, the ampersand ⟨&⟩, originally a ligature for the Latin word et, in many European languages stands logographically for the local word for "and" regardless of pronunciation.
A 2004 eye-tracking study found that Tall Man lettering resulted in fewer errors when selecting a target drug from an array of choices.
A pentagraph (from the Greek: πέντε, pénte, "five" and γράφω, gráphō, "write") is a sequence of five letters used to represent a single sound (phoneme), or a combination of sounds, that do not correspond to the individual values of the letters.
It predicts that single letters are identified faster and more accurately than many letters together, as in a word.
Instead of separating nouns into three genders (those being masculine, feminine and neuter), all nouns would be separated into two genders, namely, the common gender (de-words) and the neuter gender (het-words).
Most used are the editorial coronis, the paragraphos, the forked paragraphos, the reversed forked paragraphos, the hypodiastole, the downwards ancora, the upwards ancora, and the dotted right-pointing angle, which is also known as the diple periestigmene.
often), though not all—silent letters are sometimes added for etymological reasons, to reflect a word's spelling in its language of origin (e.g.
The other five are bet, gimel, daleth, pe, and tav (see Hebrew alphabet for more about these letters).
Its name is derived from the Rajasthani word munda, which means "bare-headedness", given to it due to the fact that the script lacks a bar at the top of the alphabet to conjoin letters, which differs it from Devanagari script.
The Moroccan state arrested and imprisoned people using this script during the 1980s and the 1990s, but now Morocco is the only country in which Tifinagh has official status.
There is only one letter I in Irish, but i is undotted in the traditional uncial Gaelic script to avoid confusion of the tittle with the buailte overdot found over consonants.
560–636) described the use of the symbol as follows: "The obelus is appended to words or phrases uselessly repeated, or else where the passage involves a false reading, so that, like the arrow, it lays low the superfluous and makes the errors disappear ...
This form is still used in British industry-standard templates for written performance dialogues, such as in a play.
The early Cyrillic alphabet from the 9th century, developed in the First Bulgarian Empire, contained 44 letters for 44 sounds.
A stroke is sometimes drawn through the numerals 7 (horizontal overbar) and 0 (overstruck foreslash), to make them more distinguishable from the number 1 and the letter O, respectively.
If "Into Darkness" was not a subtitle, then Wikipedia's manual of style would recommend that "into" be uncapitalized as a four-letter preposition.
He argued for more than simply switching to Demotic: he believed that self-development should be the priority in education, and that national self-awareness would follow.
Studies of remaining rune stones from the Viking Age reveal many nuances about the spoken language, such as the constant use of alliteration.
Constructed languages The three most spoken international auxiliary languages, Ido, Esperanto, and Interlingua, all use the comma as the decimal separator.
Description Comma splices are rare in most published writing, but are common among inexperienced writers of English.
Language A parenthesis in rhetoric and linguistics refers to the entire bracketed text, not just to the enclosing marks used (so all the text in this set of round brackets may be described as "a parenthesis").
In printing this is known as sentence case, where the first letter of the sentence is capitalized, and all others are lower case with the exception of proper nouns.
With the exception of one text transcribed in Hebraic square alphabet, no other systems are known to have been used to transcribe the Amazigh languages.
The chart below compares a number of different writing systems for Hokkien, including bopomofo, kana, Hangul, various romanizations, and Chinese characters.
Only with the Greek playwrights (such as Euripides and Aristophanes) did the ends of sentences begin to be marked to help actors know when to make a pause during performances.
This allows the letters A through F to also be used (a practice known as hexspeak or Base 16): Students often use this capability and the improved "alpha" feature that uses the letters "A" through "Z" to write messages, separating words by using the minus sign ("-") or other punctuation.
A summary table of the digraphs and diacritics of the old alphabet, and their extended Latin equivalents in the new system, follows: References Académie des langues, République de Guinée (1976).
Maghrebi variant The Maghrebi style, used in Northwestern Africa, the dots moved underneath (Unicode U+06A5), because it is based on the other style of fāʼ (ڢ‎): Other similar letters Hebrew pe The Hebrew spelling is פֵּא.
AP Stylebook According to the Associated Press Stylebook (2020 edition, 55th edition), the following rules should be applied: Capitalize the principal words.
The full discussion that would decide if Wikipedia should lowercase or uppercase the "I" in the word "into" in the film's title unfolded at the article's talk page from December 1, 2012 to January 9, 2013, and then was picked up again from January 13 to January 31, 2013.
Medial hamza will have a seat or be written alone: Surrounding vowels determine the seat of the hamza with preceding long vowels and diphthongs (such as aw or ay) being ignored.
The resulting practical transcription is a hybrid that is called both "transcription" and "transliteration" by the general public.
However the anthology does include pieces by two Irish poets who lived generations before the time of the author and this does point to some degree of familiarity by MacRath with that class of literature.
From the perspective of writing systems, they are neither alphabets nor syllabaries; rather, they are mixed scripts that are typically identified as semi-syllabaries.
The common hijāʾī sequence, read from right to left, is: Persian uses a slightly different order, in which و comes before ه instead of after it.
Soon after his return to Russia, he became acting secretary of the Academy of Sciences and de facto court poet.
Australian Federal Court Justice Michael Wigney used an interrobang in the first paragraph of his 2018 judgment in Faruqi v Latham [2018] FCA 1328 (defamation proceedings between former Federal Opposition Leader Mark Latham and political campaigner and writer Osman Faruqi).
Although the full phonetic transcription scheme is not amenable to presentation in the table below, its core elements have been included.
In Akkadian, the graph ⟨⟩ could represent the stem il- 'deity', the word šamu 'sky', or the syllable an.
The primary difference between the letter apostrophe and U+2019 is that the letter apostrophe U+02BC has the Unicode General Category "Letter, modifier" (Lm), while U+2019 has the category "Punctuation, Final quote" (Pf).
Etymology The word was coined by an artist on the Australian periodical The Bulletin in the 1920s and is derived from the word dinky.
Non-native speakers learning Arabic or Persian, however, do suffer difficulties in acquiring correct pronunciation from undermarked pedagogical material.
The right to read On April 23, 1968, when speaking on the occasion of the International Conference on Human Rights organized by the United Nations, the Director-General of UNESCO, Mr.
Diphthongs The number of diphthongs in Scottish Gaelic depends to some extent on the dialect in question but most commonly, 9 or 10 are described: /ei, ɤi, ai, ui, iə, uə, ɛu, ɔu, au, ia/.
¿Y qué de nuestra be de burro y nuestra ve de vaca, que los abuelos españoles nos trajeron como si fueran dos y siempre sobra una?
Alphabets The table shows how the letters and symbols are used to denote sounds in the 16 officially recognized Formosan languages.
The English vowel sound represented in IPA as has these homophones (varying with the speaker): alone, system, easily, gallop, circus, mountain, mullein, dungeon, parliament, legion, porpoise, curious, Abyssinia.
Julien Maunoir died in Plévin, Brittany, on 28 January 1683, and was buried in the parish church grounds at the insistence of his people.
18th-century French critics were known to use "Shakpear, Shakespehar, Shakespeart, or Shakees Pear." Shakespear A shift from "Shakespeare" to the modernised spelling "Shakespear" occurs in the second printing of the Third Folio, published in 1664 by Philip Chetwinde.
Conversely, a phonetic character set is written precisely as it is spoken, but with the disadvantage that slight pronunciation differences introduce ambiguities.
Some Soviet computers, such as Radio-86RK, Vector-06C, Agat-7, use 7-bit character encoding called KOI-7N2, where capital Russian letters replace lower-case Latin letters in the ASCII table, so can display both alphabets, but all caps only.
Vertical arrangement The Nastaʿlīq form of Islamic calligraphy uses vertical arrangement to separate words.
Although Â and Ô were not considered separate letters in the colonial alphabet, they are in the modern alphabet.
Bell was British and studied Maldivian epigraphy when he retired from the colonial government service in Colombo.
A subsequent draft on May 12, 1966, places the vertical bar in column 7 alongside regional entry codepoints, and formed the basis for the original draft proposal used by the International Standards Organisation.
As the name suggests, transposition errors occur when characters have "transposed"—that is, they have switched places.
In this role it also functions in a similar way to the English en dash, as in 미·소관계, "American–Soviet relations".
For geminate ŋŋ, these are form tetragraphs with n: ᙱ ŋŋi, ᙳ ŋŋu, ᙵ ŋŋa These are literally nnggi, nnggu, nngga.
This comparison table is compiled to guide the correct application of the List of Commonly Used Standard Chinese Characters, to facilitate the reading of ancient books, and to promote communication between the China mainland, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao.
Despite some significant differences, the scripts used for the Telugu and Kannada languages remain quite similar and highly mutually intelligible.
One account claims that the camel case style first became popular at Xerox PARC around 1978, with the Mesa programming language developed for the Xerox Alto computer.
The Unicode character ’ (U+2019 right single quotation mark) is used for both a typographic apostrophe and a single right (closing) quotation mark.
It replaces other quotation marks and was preferred by authors such as James Joyce: —O saints above!
This list does not cover local variations of international scripts, such as which diacritics are used.
In the 1840s, on behalf of the Archbishop of Kamchatka and Aleutian Innokentiy (Veniaminov), church texts began to be translated into the Even language.
Registered trademarks are indicated using the registered trademark symbol, ®, and in many jurisdictions it is unlawful or illegal to use the registered trademark symbol with a mark that has not been registered.
Air quotes, also called finger quotes, are virtual quotation marks formed in the air with one's fingers when speaking.
Chinese In Chinese, a smaller version of the character 二 (meaning "two"), as 𖿣 (U+16FE3 𖿣 OLD CHINESE ITERATION MARK), is used in casual writing to represent a doubled character, alongside 〻 and 々.
Since his day, handwritten manuscripts and printed versions of the Hebrew Bible have, for the most part, followed his system.
Pāṇini does not use the Akṣarasamāmnāya to refer to homorganic stops, but rather the anubandha U: to refer to the palatals c ch j jh he uses cU.
Leiden usage in corpora L'Année épigraphique, Presses Universitaires de France (Revue archéologique.
34 Juhász, Irén (1985): A szarvasi avar rovásírásos tűtartó [The Avar need-case of Szarvas with Rovas script].
One instance of a medial ם‎ is preserved in Isaiah 9:6 of the Hebrew Bible, while Nehemiah 2:13 and arguably Genesis 49:19–20 have a final מ‎.
From the 10th century, the pitch-defining element (if it ever existed) seems to have been gradually forgotten, so that the "lightning flash" sign (with the stroke sometimes slightly curved) is often seen indifferently at the end of clauses, whether they embody a question or not.
Bales was likewise very dexterous in imitating handwritings, and between 1576 and 1590 was employed by Secretary Walsingham in certain political manoeuvres.
Other systems, known as kana, used Chinese characters phonetically to transcribe the sounds of Japanese syllables.
The modifier letter turned comma ʻ is a character found in Unicode resembling a comma that has been turned.
In the .org domain, registering one variant renders the other unavailable to anyone; in .biz a single Chinese-language IDN registration delivers both variants as active domains (which must have the same domain name server and the same registrant).
For example, the glyph 'stars and moon' written in black means 'dim', but written in white it means 'shining' (Sun 2009:165).
As a comparison, ISO 8859 requires only one byte for each grapheme, while the Basic Multilingual Plane encoded in UTF-8 requires up to three bytes.
Letter inventory Most IAL writing systems use only letters from the ISO basic Latin alphabet, but there are some exceptions.
He also talks about diple peri strichon (or sticon), which was used to draw attention to separate concepts, and diple periestigmene used (like obelos) to mark dubious passages.
Also at the beginning of the 20th century, the Udege language material was collected by Pyotr Shmidt and Stanisław Poniatowski.
van Groningen, "Projet d'unification des systèmes de signes critiques", Chronique d'Égypte 7 (1932), pp.
Reading comprehension The NRP describes reading comprehension as a complex cognitive process in which a reader intentionally and interactively engages with the text.
While some sources view comma splices as a form of run-on sentences, others limit the term to independent clauses that are joined without punctuation.
In Microsoft Word for Windows, holding down the Control key while typing two apostrophes will produce a single punctuation apostrophe.
In 2025-2026, schools in the provinces of Ontario, Nova Scotia, Alberta, and New Brunswick had plans to implement structured literacy.
The devious lazy red frog suggests there are lazy red frogs (one of which is devious), while the devious, lazy red frog does not carry this connotation.
Naṣārā/nosrim designates Christians in Arabic, Aramaic and Hebrew, although the more common term for Christians in Modern Standard Arabic is masihi (مسيحي, plural مسيحيون).
Modern scholars refer to these symbols instead as logograms, and generally avoid calling them ideograms.
Because there is also a visual aspect to dyslexia, affected children often show symptoms such as mirror letter reversal (e.g.
It is created by rotating right (clockwise) the wavy dash symbol (U+3030 〰 WAVY DASH) to form a vertical wave-like pattern.
[…] Put a comma before the concluding conjunction in a series, however, if an integral element of the series requires a conjunction: I had orange juice, toast, and ham and eggs for breakfast.
In 1595 he had a great trial of skill with one Daniel Johnson, for a golden pen valued at £20, and won it; and a contemporary author further relates that he had also the arms of calligraphy given him, which are azure, a pen or (blue with a gold pen).
Crown Letters and Punctuation and Their Placements (Arabic: حروف التاج وعلامات الترقيم ومواضع استعمالها) is a manifesto published by the Egyptian Ministry of Education and written by Abdulqader Aashour in 1932.
Another theoretical example of a heptagraph would be the traditional Irish spelling oidhche 'night' for modern oíche, but only for the pronunciation /iː/ as found in the Cois Fharraige dialect.
Optimality theory In optimality theory, asterisks are used as "violation marks" in tableau cells to denote a violation of a constraint by an output form.
In German it is occasionally used to indicate a pair of letters which cannot both be fitted into the available space (also see the use of macron in German writing).
The prediction that the Kapampangans would be absorbed by the Tagalogs, at least linguistically, was seen by Kapampangan groups as a real threat, since Tagalog words were replacing indigenous words in spoken Kapampangan.
The hyphen, minus sign, and dashes of various widths have been collapsed into a single character (-), sometimes repeated to represent a long dash.
A diaeresis may also be used in a like fashion, either to separate and mark off monographs (as in coöperation) or to signalize a vocalic terminal e (for example, Brontë).
Computer fonts for these three living scripts are available for IBM and Macintosh platforms, and come into two styles based on actual historical and stylistic samples.
In Pierre Pigneau de Behaine and Jean-Louis Taberd's 1838 Dictionarium Anamitico-Latinum, the words ao᷃ and ou᷃ became ong and ông, respectively.
There is no agreement about how the Paleohispanic semi-syllabaries originated; some researchers conclude that they derive only from the Phoenician alphabet, while others believe the Greek alphabet was also involved.
A typeface was developed in 1985–1986 by Edward Oguejofor and Victor Manfredi, in co-operation with the NLC, with technical assistance from Hermann Zapf.
For example, 318830=DEBBIE, 7718=BILL, 46137=LEIgh, 5107=LOIS, 31773=ELLIE, 31717173=ELI LILIE (in Polish: lily flowers of Elisabeth), 302=ZOE and 451713 317718=BILLIE EILISh.
Similar to the manifestation of aspiration, the slender consonants have a palatal offglide when initial and a palatal onglide when medial or final.
It was accepted into Unicode and is included in several fonts, including Lucida Sans Unicode, Arial Unicode MS, and Calibri, the default font in the Office 2007, 2010, and 2013 suites.
It is called a "parenthetical" phrase even when it is not delimited by any brackets (such as round – [or square] – brackets).
Evenki itself is spelled eweŋki, despite Mongolian orthography usually prohibiting the letter combination ŋk.
Spanish is an alphabet with shallow orthography; there is clear one-to-one correspondence between phonemes and graphemes.
Digraphs Although most IALs eschew digraphs, there are some IALs that use digraphs: Interlingua: ch, qu, ph, sh Ido: ch, qu, sh Novial: ch, sh Esperanto H-system: ch (for ĉ), gh (for ĝ), hh (for ĥ), jh (for ĵ), and sh (for ŝ).
This was a version of shorthand for ampersand, and the stroke economy of this version provided ease of writing for workers while also assuring the character was distinct from other numeric or alphabetic symbols.
Zhuang languages were traditionally written with Chinese characters, but are now usually written with romanized alphabets.
See also Hokkien Hokkien culture Written Hokkien Hokkien entertainment media Taiwanese Hokkien Singapore Hokkien Penang Hokkien Southern Malaysia Hokkien Medan Hokkien Philippine Hokkien Speak Hokkien Campaign == References ==
Communist Party and simplified characters While the use of simplified Chinese is often associated with the PRC and its ruling Communist party, the connection today is not as simple as it once may have been.
In Russia, a Cyrillic-based alphabet enjoys official status, while in China two scripts are used: Latin script (multiple versions) and the Mongolian script (experimentally).
eidheann "ivy", feidheartha "penniless", leigheas "healing", deideigheanna "soft toys", deighealfaidh "will divide".
The normal way in most of Europe to write the number seven is with a bar.) In medieval English scribal abbreviations, a stroke or bar was used to indicate abbreviation.
Wherever he made his home, it was a centre for gatherings of scholars, littérateurs, and the most cultured men of the time.
The older colonial system showed marked influence from French, for instance writing /u, w/ as ⟨ou⟩ and /sˤ/ as ⟨ç⟩, and was inconsistent in marking many Berber sounds, for instance writing /ʕ/ as a circumflex over the vowel, and often leaving emphatics unmarked.
The x-system has become as popular as the h-system, but it has long been perceived as being contrary to the Fundamento de Esperanto.
On the other hand, others worry that this approach could prompt educators "to abandon research-tested practices that are only just now securing a foothold in districts".
It was formerly an apostrophe placed after the contracted vowel, but is now placed over the vowel and is identical to the smooth breathing.
For example, in German dictionaries the word ökonomisch comes between offenbar and olfaktorisch, while Turkish dictionaries treat o and ö as different letters, placing oyun before öbür.
For many other languages, such as those featuring agglutination and more complex declension and conjugation, this part of the process is more complicated.
His goal was to introduce a spelling system with a one-to-one relationship between sounds and symbols ("to vse as many letters in our writing, as we doe voyces or breathes in speaking, and no more ").
By contrast, the occurrence of the definite article "the" cannot be modeled by simple probabilistic laws because the number of nouns with definite article depends on the subject matter.
Structured Word Inquiry (SWI) is a pedagogical technique that involves the scientific investigation of the spelling of words.
In typography, a dinkus is a typographic device or convention that typically consists of three spaced asterisks or bullet symbols in a horizontal row, e.g.
CJK Symbols and Punctuation is a Unicode block containing symbols and punctuation used for writing the Chinese, Japanese and Korean languages.
In the Ukrainian alphabet and in the Belarusian alphabet, U+02BC is used for the semi-letter 'apostrophe' (which plays a role similar to Russian ⟨ъ⟩) in certain contexts, such as, for example, in internationalized domain names where a punctuation mark would be disallowed.
Capitals are sometimes used and sometimes not used after a colon, although they are used in some citation systems such as APA style when beginning an independent clause.
This research provides evidence that orthographic irregularities, such as the "complex grapheme-phoneme relations" found in English, present significant difficulties in the reading development of children.
Ancient Greek orthography used between two and five dots as word separators, as well as the hypodiastole.
Positurae first reached England in the late 10th century, probably during the Benedictine reform movement, but was not adopted until after the Norman conquest.
Arabic The Arabic alphabet (Arabic: أَلْأَبْجَدِيَّة ٱلْعَرَبِيَّة, al-ʾabjadīyaḧ l-ʿarabīyah or أَلْحُرُوف ٱلْعَرَبِيَّة, al-ḥurūf l-ʿarabīyaḧ), or Arabic abjad, is the Arabic script as it is codified for writing Arabic.
Heffernan recalls that: "The old people worried that this school business didn't fit well with our culture.
Shahmukhi is one of the two standard scripts used for Punjabi, the other being Gurmukhī used mainly in Punjab, India.
Terminology Guillemets are also called French quotes, French quotation marks, angle quotation marks, or duckfoot quotes.
Handsman and Ann McMullen, published in 1987 by the American Archaeological Institute in Washington, CT.
Le français en Belgique, published in 1997 with Daniel Blampain, Jean-Marie Klinkenberg, Marc Wilmet ("One language, one community.
It was connected with the document "Rules of Russian orthography and punctuation", which was published in 1956.
These are considered letters in their own respective right, and not vowels with diacritics, in the modern orthographical system.
It was a development of the earlier double oblique hyphen ⸗, which developed from a Central European variant of the virgule slash, originally a form of scratch comma.
Of forty-four English language sound combinations, listed in one dictionary, thirty-nine of them have more than two signs, and only one of them has one sign.
Tibetan The Tibetan script has two official romanization systems: Tibetan Pinyin (for Lhasa Tibetan) and Roman Dzongkha (for Dzongkha).
In Unicode, the dotted circle (◌) is a non-significant typographic character used to illustrate the effect of a combining mark, such as a diacritic mark.
The Africa Alphabet (also International African Alphabet or IAI alphabet) is a set of letters designed as the basis for Latin alphabets for the languages of Africa.
In the late 1920s and 1930s, the Latgalian orthography used in Siberia used additional letters with comma: ⟨c̦⟩, ⟨d̦⟩, ⟨m̦⟩, ⟨p̦⟩, ⟨ș⟩, ⟨ț⟩, ⟨v̦⟩, ⟨z̦⟩.
A number of methods exist for this purpose, but the main ones are:- InScript Inscript is the standard keyboard for Indian languages.
For example the word "done" is an adjective in English (pronounced /dʌn/), a verb in Spanish (present subjunctive form of donar) and a noun in Czech (vocative singular form of don, pronounced /ˈdonɛ/).
Rodríguez Ramos, Jesús (2000): «La lectura de las inscripciones sudlusitano-tartesias», Faventia 22/1, pp.
If, however, the proper value of the vowel is not recoverable through vowel harmony, then the letter ь /ʔ/ is added at the end of the syllable, as in шагыйрь /ʃaʁir/ "poet".
An example of this in Japanese would be the grapheme 東 [east], which can be read as higashi or azuma, in addition to its logographic representation of the morpheme tō.
Chicago Manual of Style Capitalize nouns, pronouns, adjectives, verbs, adverbs, and subordinating conjunctions.
Numbers Lycian uses the following number symbols: I (vertical stroke) = 1, < ("less than" sign) (or, rarely, L or C or V or Y) = 5, O (circle) = 10; a horizontal stroke — is one half; a symbol somewhat like our letter H may mean 100.
In 1598, the English term point of interrogation is attested in an Italian–English dictionary by John Florio.
A hexagraph (from the Greek: ἕξ, héx, "six" and γράφω, gráphō, "write") is a sequence of six letters used to represent a single sound (phoneme), or a combination of sounds that do not correspond to the individual values of the letters.
A phonogram or phonograph (from Ancient Greek phōnḗ 'sound' + grắphō 'writing') is a basic unit of writing (or grapheme) that represents a sound used when speaking a particular language, like a phoneme or syllable.
Its aim is to make Provençal Occitan orthography closer to French, relying on a mixture of traditional spelling and French spelling conventions.
Arabic kāf The letter is named kāf, and it is written in several ways depending on its position in the word.
Founded in 1967 as The Journal of Typographical Research by Merald Wrolstad, occasional Visible Language issues are co-edited with a guest editor-author.
The journal has covered the subject of concrete poetry, the Fluxus art movement, painted text, textual criticism, the abstraction of symbols, articulatory synthesis and text, and the evolution of the page from print to on-screen display.
The phenomenon has also been called allography or heterography, although both these terms have other uses, the former to denote different shapes of the same grapheme and the latter to denote different spellings of homophones.
An orthography in which the correspondences between spelling and pronunciation are highly complex or inconsistent is called a deep orthography (or less formally, the language is said to have irregular spelling).
Such systems are used, for example, in the modern languages Serbo-Croatian (arguably, an example of perfect phonemic orthography), Macedonian, Estonian, Finnish, Italian, Romanian, Spanish, Georgian, Hungarian, Turkish, and Esperanto.
A comma-like low quotation mark is also available (shown below; corresponding sets of raised single quotation marks and double-quotation marks are not shown).
Like Arabic and most other Ajami, the vowels are written with a diacritic marked around a character.
Discovery and publication The manuscript for Orthographia bohemica was found by František Palacký on 13 August 1826, in Třeboň in the south of Bohemia.
John Evelyn wrote: Hadrian Junius, speaking as a miracle of somebody who wrote the Apostles' Creed and the beginning of St.
Conversely, for any final syllable that ends with letters other than ⟨k⟩ or ⟨h⟩, the morpheme bound to it must use vowel ⟨i⟩ instead of ⟨e⟩, with exceptions given to first syllable using vowels ⟨o⟩ or ⟨e⟩, thus vowel ⟨e⟩ must be used instead.
Auditing transcription errors in medical research databases Double data entry is considered to be the goldstandard approach, although even when ruled important, it is described emotionally as "laborious".
See also fr:Faute d'orthographe fr:Wikipédia:Liste de fautes d'orthographe courantes == References ==
Gershayim (Hebrew: גֵּרְשַׁיִם, without niqqud גרשיים), also occasionally grashayim (גְּרָשַׁיִם), can refer to either of two distinct typographical marks in the Hebrew language.
Likewise, the Juu languages have been claimed to have a heptagraph ⟨dtsʼkxʼ⟩, but this is also a sequence, of ⟨dtsʼ⟩ and ⟨kxʼ⟩.
This should be checked by proofreading; some syntax errors may also be picked up by the program the author is using to write the code.
Consonants There is another legacy consonant ೞ/ఴ (ḻa) used to represent /ɻa/, but currently not in use.
Printed anthologies of Romani folktales and poems began in the 20th century in Eastern Europe, using the respective national scripts (Latin or Cyrillic).
Thus, each target language (English and French) transcribes the surname according to its own orthography.
This convention remains in use in these languages, and is also common in program names entered on a command line, as in Unix.
Guinea language orthography The Guinea alphabet made use of several digraphs (including either "h" or "y" as the second letter), some of which represent consonants not present in European languages, and two diacritics (grave accent and diaeresis) for open vowels.
Although not universally accepted, the brushed-origin thesis had been proposed in the nineteenth century.
Heterogram (classical compound: "different" + "written") is a term used mostly in the philology of Akkadian and Pahlavi texts containing borrowings from Sumerian and Aramaic respectively.
Therefore, with effect from 1 August 2005, the traditional spelling system was to be considered incorrect by the schools, except that two of the German states, Bavaria and North Rhine-Westphalia, had both officially rejected the reform.
In 1989, following a meeting on reform of the alphabet in 1988, it was decided to adopt an orthography similar to the African reference alphabet used elsewhere in the region.
As a consequence, on August 22, 1940, the linguist Gurgen Sevak (1904-1981) promoted a second reform of Armenian orthography, which marked a partial return to Mesropian spelling.
The bill calls for the protection and conservation of Baybayin as the national script of the Philippines.
These are: absolute value: | x | {\displaystyle |x|} , read "the absolute value of x" cardinality: | S | {\displaystyle |S|} , read "the cardinality of the set S" or "the length of a string S" determinant: | A | {\displaystyle |A|} , read "the determinant of the matrix A".
Conversely, the users of some innovative pronunciations such as "Febuary" (for February) may regard another, earlier version as a pedantic spelling pronunciation.
See also Asterism (disambiguation) (other uses of the word) Dingbat – Typographic symbol class Ellipsis – Triple-dot punctuation mark Signature mark – Mark identifying a section in bookbinding == References ==
However, the "Interpretation of the List of Commonly Used Standard Chinese Characters" states that unlimited analogy simplification "actually complicates and even confuses the overall system of Chinese characters...
The first Thaana manuscripts are written in a crude early version of this script, where the Arabic numerals have not yet been slanted 45 degrees and still looked like numbers.
In the Korean alphabet, the featural symbols are combined into alphabetic letters, and these letters are in turn joined into syllabic blocks, so the system combines three levels of phonological representation.
Keyboard A typewriter keyboard was produced for the NLC by Olivetti: On this typewriter keyboard layout the letters Q and X were not mapped as they were not part of the alphabet, and digits 0 or 1 had to be entered as capital letters O and I.
The Republic of China (ROC) is the largest community of traditional character users and ROC President Ma Ying-jeou pushed for the removal of simplified Chinese translations which were available for use by Mainland internet users on government websites before 15 June 2011.
Manx uses the cedilla diacritic ⟨ç⟩ combined with h to give the digraph ⟨çh⟩ (pronounced /tʃ/) to mark the distinction between it and the digraph ⟨ch⟩ (pronounced /h/ or /x/).
For example: the root of תַּשְׁבֵּצִים/taʃbeˈtsim/ "crossword puzzles" is שב״צ (š—b—ṣ); the root of לְהַטּוֹת /lehaˈtot/ "to tilt, to conjugate" is נט״ה‎ (n—ṭ—h); and the root of הִסְתַּנְכְּרְנוּת /histankreˈnut/ "being synchronized" is סנכר״נ (s–n–k–r–n).
Although in both senses, "allography is more common than might be assumed at first", in the strict sense it covers Old Nubian writing, which used only a lightly modified form of the Greek alphabet, and even modern English orthography, which makes use of the Latin alphabet.
Long vowels (which Latin possessed but did not indicate) were to be indicated by the čárka (an acute accent) above a, e, i and y.
A 2016 time-series analysis of data from 42 children's hospitals over a 9-year period found no significant difference before and after a 2007 recommendation for hospitals to adopt Tall Man lettering.
They can indicate that a writer is purposely misusing a word or phrase or that the writer is unpersuaded by the text in quotes, and they can help the writer deny responsibility for the quote.
Arbitrary variation found popularity among adolescent users during the BBS and early WWW eras of online culture, as if in parody of the marginally less idiosyncratic capitalization found in common trade and service marks of the time.
However, they share a common origin, and the most widely accepted hypothesis is that the northeastern Iberian script was derived from the southeastern Iberian script.
The Tresor dòu Felibrige, published by the Félibrige in 1878, was written entirely in the Mistralian norm.
This is quite common in Spanish, where the use of bracketing question marks explicitly indicates the scope of interrogation.
It is placed above the stressed syllable, as in Biblical Hebrew: וַיִּקַּ֞ח, romanized: wayyiqqáḥ, in Genesis 22:3.
Replacement with ⟨k⟩ Sometimes ⟨k⟩ replaces ⟨c⟩, ⟨ck⟩, or ⟨qu⟩, as a trope for giving words a hard-edged or whimsical feel, in addition to enabling the copyright of commercial names.
As late as 1699, more than a century after the Spanish conquest, Spaniards continued studying the Kapampangan language and writing system.
The use of two kanji in place of an iteration mark is allowed, and in simple cases may be used due to being easier to write.
However, this study has been criticized due to methodological limitations, such as not recording when and how Tall Man lettering was adopted, if at all, at each of the hospitals studied.
The spelling of De Vries and Te Winkel combined elements of the three current systems, providing a much needed solution to the chaos.
He observed that bees produce wax combs from scales of wax produced in their own bodies; and he was among the first to assert that drones are male and the queen female, though he believed worker bees lay eggs.
History One hypothesis for the origin of the asterisk used to mark notes is that it stems from the 5,000-year-old Sumerian character dingir, 𒀭, though this hypothesis seems to only be based on visual appearance.
He was the first modern scholar to study these ancient writings and he undertook an extensive and serious research on the available epigraphy.
The act of composing and recording a text is referred to as writing, and the act of viewing and interpreting the text as reading.
In Unicode code charts it looks identical to the U+2019 ’ RIGHT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK, but this is not true for all fonts.
According to Jansen (2010), Sahaptian languages [do] not have a long written tradition and the alphabet systems for writing the language are still fairly new.
This article describes two- and three-letter combinations (so-called digraphs and trigraphs) used for the Mongolian language when written in the Mongolian script.
Effectively it re-introduced the space between words in religious texts, especially on the Continent.
Italian orthography uses ⟨ch⟩ to indicate a hard pronunciation before ⟨e⟩ or ⟨i⟩, analogous to English using ⟨k⟩ (as in kill and keep) and ⟨qu⟩ (as in mosquito and queue).
It is a term used in the traditional grammar of the Sanskrit language and in the Vedanta school of Indian philosophy.
"The religious landscape of Northwest Arabia as reflected in the Nabataean, Nabataeo-Arabic, and pre-Islamic Arabic inscriptions".
Although the expression is technically ambiguous ("students of a high school"/"school students who are high"), it would normally be formulated differently if other than the first meaning were intended.
Compare commas, em dashes and parentheses (respectively) when no internal commas intervene: The food, which was delicious, reminded me of home.
Navigating Language in the Early Islamic World: Multilingualism and Language Change in the First Centuries of Islam.
Just like scare quotes, hashtags such as #firstworldproblems or #YOLO may signal that the phrase is not one's own.
The following verb endings are all pronounced the same: tu parles, il parle and ils parlent; there can also be confusion around the similar sounding je parlais and je parlai.
A yig mgo is a textual caret mark in Tibetan script which is one of the possible markers for a new text or page.
The SSS-99 symbol set expanded the number of symbols, and the SSS-2002 set was the first to use the current identification numbering system.
Some fonts draw the characters the same (both are solid vertical bars, or both are broken vertical bars).
A relative clause is a dependent clause that modifies a noun or noun phrase in the independent clause.
Yohanan: “She hath hewn out her seven pillars” (Proverbs 9:1) – these are the seven books of the Pentateuch; according to whom?
In handwriting, "1˙234˙567,89" is also seen, but never in Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, Estonia, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovenia or Sweden.
In response to the persecution of Christians and Yazidis by ISIL, an international social media campaign was launched to raise global awareness, symbolized by the letter ن (nun)—the mark painted by ISIL.
Computer encoding See also Notes References External links Media related to Symbols at Wikimedia Commons
They were at 0xAE and 0xAF (174 and 175) in CP437 on the IBM PC, and 0xC7 and 0xC8 in Mac OS Roman, and placed in several of ISO 8859 code pages (namely: -1, -7, -8, -9, -13, -15, -16) at 0xAB and 0xBB (171 and 187).
For example, English orthography includes uppercase and lowercase forms for 26 letters of the Latin alphabet (with these graphemes corresponding to various phonemes), punctuation marks (mostly non-phonemic), and other symbols, such as numerals.
André Dupont-Sommer, "La tablette cunéiforme araméenne de Warka," Revue d’Assyriologie 39, 1942–1944, pp.
This is now considered old-fashioned, and when it was used it was usually seen in documents sent between emperor and ministers when the minister mentioned the emperor.
386-390 See also History of English grammars English-language spelling reform Bibliography Bullokar, William (1977).
In words of Greco-Latinate origin, the soft ⟨g⟩ pronunciation occurs before ⟨e i y⟩ while the hard ⟨g⟩ pronunciation occurs elsewhere.
The Arabic Abjad system continues at this point with letters not found in other alphabets: thāʾ = 500, khāʾ = 600, dhāl = 700, etc.
Others have theorized that it is an adaptation of the Ancient Greek παράγραφος (paragraphos), a catch-all term for a class of punctuation marks used by scribes with diverse shapes and intended uses.
He also insisted that the spelling represents the proper pronunciation, evidenced by puns on the words "shake" and "spear" in Shakespeare's contemporaries.
As late as the 18th century, John Mason related the appropriateness of a colon to the length of the pause taken when reading the text aloud, but silent reading eventually replaced this with other considerations.
Initiated in 2011, the Hamari Boli Initiative is a full-scale open-source language planning initiative aimed at Hindustani script, style, status & lexical reform and modernization.
1967 and 2005 Kahle, Paul, Masoreten des Westens II: 1930 [9] External links This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Ginzberg, Louis; Levias, Caspar (1902).
Hovhannisyan's successor, the translator and journalist Poghos Makintsyan, continued to work in this direction, forming a new committee in February 1922.
The ѳ was pronounced as f and used only in foreign words, particularly Greek.) By 1917, the only two words still spelled with ѵ in common use were мѵро (müro, [ˈmʲirə], 'chrism') and сѵнодъ (sünod, [sʲɪˈnot], 'synod').
Arrangement The Akṣarasamāmnāya puts phonemes with a similar manner of articulation together (so sibilants in 13 śa ṣa sa R, nasals in 7 ñ m ṅ ṇ n M).
Diple (Ancient Greek: διπλῆ, meaning double, referring to the two lines in the mark >) was a mark used in the margins of ancient Greek manuscripts to draw attention to something in the text.
The Unicode standard recommends using this character also in other Indic scripts, like Bengali, Telugu, Oriya, and others.
In more recent years, the ampersand has made its way into the Haskell standard library, representing flipped function application: x & f means the same thing as f x.
Additionally, the letter "i" is used after these nine consonants if it appears at the end of an uninflected loanword, such as колібрі, парі, фрі, and таксі, though таксист is an exception to this rule.
Systems include: BGN/PCGN (1947): Transliteration system (United States Board on Geographic Names & Permanent Committee on Geographical Names for British Official Use).
Examples from the recent past 1982's Scottish Roots, a guide for family history researchers, warns that older Scottish records do not in fact follow this convention, unlike contemporary telephone directories.
In professional documents, a commonly preferred alternative to all caps text is the use of small caps to emphasise key names or acronyms (for example, Text in Small Caps), or the use of italics or (more rarely) bold.
For example, in tall man lettering, "prednisone" and "prednisolone" should be written "predniSONE" and "predniSOLONE", respectively.
The velars distinguish between plain and labialized (that is, articulated with rounded lips, or followed by a [w] sound).
The multiplication dot or "dot operator" is frequently used in mathematical and scientific notation, and it may differ in appearance from the interpunct.
The pentagraph ⟨ххьӏв⟩ is used in Archi for [χːˤʷ]: a labialized ⟨ххьӏ⟩ [χːˤ], which is the 'strong' counterpart of the pharyngealized voiceless uvular fricative ([χˤ]), written using the trigraph ⟨хьӏ⟩, whose graph is in turn an unpredictable derivation of ⟨х⟩ ([χ]) and thus a true trigraph.
Frank Nuessel points out that use of eye dialect closely interacts with stereotypes about various groups, both relying on and reinforcing them in an attempt to efficiently characterize speech.
Since 2006, the new rules have become compulsory in Bavarian and North Rhine-Westphalian state schools as well.
Labeling of ordered items In some contexts, numbers and letters are used not so much as a basis for establishing an ordering, but as a means of labeling items that are already ordered.
Recent scholarly editions of the Masoretic text show the reversed nun as described by the Masoretes.
This name for the letter probably originated from a fast recitation of the alphabet (i.e., "tsadi, qoph" → "tsadiq, qoph"), influenced by the Hebrew word tzadik, meaning "righteous person".
She observes that a reader must be prompted to access their memory of a given speech pattern and that non-orthographic signals that accomplish this may be more effective than eye dialect.
Two alternative ways of using the soft hyphen character for this purpose have emerged, depending on whether the encoded text will be broken into lines by its recipient, or has already been preformatted by its originator.
Bengali Unlike other Indic languages, Bengali features silent consonants, which occur in many consonant clusters.
This Bible codex has not been preserved, but the differences between it and Ben Asher's version are found in incomplete Masoretic lists found in quotations in David Ḳimḥi, Norzi, and other medieval writers as well as in manuscripts such as British Museum MS.
For example, for a patient presenting with left lower abdominal pain, a differential diagnosis might include ?diverticulitis (read as "query diverticulitis").
Some Latin alphabets devised in the 1920s for some Caucasian languages used the ⟨ſ⟩ for some specific sounds.
In general in German, long stressed vowels are followed by single consonants, and short stressed vowels by double consonants.
Problem with standard sorting In standard alphabetical (lexicographical) sorting, strings are compared character by character from left to right.
History This alternation has its origins in a historical palatalization of /ɡ/ which took place in Late Latin, and led to a change in the pronunciation of the sound [ɡ] before the front vowels [e] and [i].
English orthography English orthography is based on the alphabetic principle, but the acquisition of sounds and spellings from a variety of languages and differential sound change within English have left Modern English spelling patterns confusing.
At the same time, in Chukotka, in the local press, specific letters of the Even written language were not introduced at the same time — first, the Ӈ ӈ , then Ө ө , and finally ӫ.
The rule of nine (Ukrainian: Правило дев'ятки) is a orthographic rule of the Ukrainian language, which prohibits writing the letter "i" in loanwords after nine consonants (д, т, з, с, ц, ж, ш, ч, and р) if the next letter is a consonant (except for "й").
At the top left are three stars (22 above), two black and one white; a black star is dim, a white star shining.
↑ Na'vi uses the letter ʼ and the digraphs aw, ay, ew, ey, kx, ll, ng (sometimes written ⟨g⟩), px, rr, ts (sometimes written ⟨c⟩), tx.
Additionally, the method's focus on morphological structures may be difficult for younger students or those with specific learning challenges to grasp initially.
In his system, the asteriskos marked lines that were duplicated elsewhere, and when combined with the obelos, indicated lines considered to be spurious duplications.
No distinct punctuation is used to mark questions or exclamations, which must be inferred from other aspects of the sentence.
In this way, private publications could formally be printed using the old (or more generally, any convenient) orthography.
Phonology Vowels When a front vowel /e/ or /i/ follows a consonant with a back vowel constraint (e.g.
Examples Obtained from Dictionarium Annamiticum Lusitanum et Latinum, a trilingual Vietnamese, Portuguese and Latin dictionary by Jesuit Alexandre de Rhodes.
In some versions, the option character can be changed from / to - via SWITCHAR, which allows COMMAND.COM to preserve / in the command name.
It is used in a number of Polynesian alphabets as the letter ʻokina to represent the glottal stop, and in the Uzbek alphabet to form the letters Oʻ and Gʻ, which correspond to Ў and Ғ respectively in the Uzbek Cyrillic alphabet.
The vertical wave dash () is not currently included in Unicode, but there is a similar symbol available called the wavy line (U+2307 ⌇ WAVY LINE).
There are so many metaphors reflecting and implying something which, though thus variously expressed, is ineffable, though thus rendered multiform, remains inscrutable.
For human readers, the difference is imperceptible and unimportant but it has significance in text processing applications.
It includes all the characters in the List of Commonly Used Standard Chinese Characters which have different forms in traditional or variant writing.
Basic Russian Spelling Rules Spelling Rule #1 After the velar consonants г, к, and х: and the sibilant consonants ж, ч, ш, щ: one must never write the "hard" vowel ы, but must always replace it with its "soft" equivalent и, even though after ж and ш, и is pronounced as if it were written ы.
The orthography of personal names is regulated so that vernacular forms are replaced with canonical Orthodox forms, for example: ⟨Юрый⟩ instead of ⟨Юрка⟩, ⟨Юры⟩, ⟨Юра⟩ or ⟨Юрась⟩.
Along with this, many students going through Koranic education would write down notes in their native languages, usually in the margins of books.
Because that is implausible, it is relatively clear that the construction refers to two separate people.
Zalgo text, also known as cursed text or glitch text, is digital text that has been modified with numerous Unicode combining characters—symbols used to add diacritics above or below letters—to appear frightening or glitchy.
A pasigraphy (from Greek πᾶσι pasi "to all" and γράφω grapho "to write") is a writing system where each written symbol represents a concept (rather than or not just a word or sound or series of sounds in a spoken language).
In some cases where stress dictates whether or not a spelling rule is to be applied, "mixed declensions" can result.
This distinction has been transferred to Persian language as well, matching its vowel system consisting of 6-8 vowels depending on dialect.
When English club was first borrowed into French, the approved pronunciation was [klab], as being a reasonable approximation of the English.
In the 1970s, replacement interrobang keycaps and typefaces were available for some Smith-Corona typewriters.
But since the letter e is assigned to represent both [ɛ] and [e], there is no principled way to know whether to pronounce the written words setta and vetta with [ɛ] or [e]—the spelling does not present the information needed for accurate pronunciation.
This follows the guidelines of some modern American style guides, including those published by the Associated Press and the Modern Language Association.
Recently discovered manuscripts from the 1620s make clear, however, that the addition of dots and circles to Manchu script began before their supposed introduction by Dahai.
A convention of sorting names with the Scottish and Irish patronymic prefixes Mac and Mc together persists in library science and archival practice.
Generally equivalent to the baseline universal standard of formal English orthography mentioned above; that is, only the first word is capitalized, except for proper nouns and other words which are generally capitalized by a more specific rule.
From an analysis of these and other data the first 4 epistles (Romans, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, and Galatians) form a consistent group, and all the other epistles lie more than 2 standard deviations from the mean of this group (using χ 2 {\displaystyle \chi ^{2}} statistics).
This table has adjusted the "First List of Processed Chinese Variant Characters" and includes 794 groups of 1,023 variant characters in total.
— 11th–12th century Sephardic Torah scroll, showing in its folios the plene bar written above six of the double-sounding consonants (בג"ד כפ"ת) whenever they are to be read without a dagesh.
For example, the words ace and race are both standard words but adding -ate or -age (both productive affixes in English) would create spellings that seem to indicate hard ⟨c⟩ pronunciations (acate and racage).
Ideological symbols such as religious and state symbols convey complex sets of beliefs and ideas that indicate "the right thing to do".
Several other missionaries fluent in the language also offered their own missionary tracts and translations.
The Harkavy and YIVO initiatives provide a convenient framework within which intervening developments may be considered.
Instead of representing sounds using digraphs and trigraphs, it proposed a "diacritic orthography", where one letter indicates only one sound, and different but related sounds (such as those now represented by r and ř) are distinguished by diacritics.
One of the possible reasons for the cessation of book publishing in the Udege language is the fact that in 1937 Yevgeny Shneider was repressed.
Beyond the Latin alphabet, Morse code uses hexagraphs for several punctuation marks, and the dollar sign ⟨$⟩ is a heptagraph, ⟨· · · — · · —⟩.
Despite being called "compounds", these logograms are still single characters, and are written to take up the same amount of space as any other logogram.
Mandarin Chinese In the Cyrillization of Mandarin, there are digraphs цз and чж, which correspond to Pinyin z/j and zh.
Phonemic orthographies have the highest possible level of orthographic depth, as they have exact grapheme to phoneme correspondence.
Sometimes such heterograms are referred to by terms identifying the source language such as "Sumerograms" or "Aramaeograms".
As word recognition is better understood, more reliable and efficient forms of teaching may be discovered for both children and adult learners of first-language literacy.
Characters See also African Reference Alphabet Latin-script alphabet Dinka alphabet ISO 6438 Pan-Nigerian alphabet General Alphabet of Cameroon Languages Lepsius Standard Alphabet Writing systems of Africa Notes References Coulmas, Florian (1996).
Air quotes are often used to express satire, sarcasm, irony or euphemism and are analogous to scare quotes in print.
Curiously, this habit of writing comma-joined sentences is not uncommon in both older and present-day fiction.
International auxiliary language orthography (IAL orthography) is often simplified when compared with natural language orthography.
Mahajani refers to the Punjabi word for 'bankers', also known as 'sarrafi' or 'kothival' (merchant).
(This is the so-called dual signary model: see northeastern Iberian script.) If correct, this innovation would parallel the creation of the Latin letter G by the addition of a stroke to C, which had previously stood for both /k/ and /g/.
Many of these arcane incantations included Arabic quotations from the Qur'an, which were written from right to left.
An official script is a writing system that is specifically designated to be official in the constitutions or other applicable laws of countries, states, and other jurisdictions.
The word "Pazend" ultimately derives from the Avestan words paiti zainti, which can be translated as either "for commentary purposes" or "according to understanding" (phonetically).
Similarly, Greek vowels did not distinguish between short and long, and thus Greek Aljamiado had the same issues and shortcomings as Ottoman orthography.
As another example, so-called camel case—in which the first letter of each word is capitalized—has become part of the culture of many computer programming languages.
Language usage outside the precincts of the school reflected a state of confusion in the minds of the people in the spelling of their language using the Rumi script.
According to Katz, critics of Yiddish often highlighted the German, Slavic, and Hebrew syncretism of Yiddish to allege that the language was impure and corrupted.
Linguistics His endeavours in the field of linguistics received lively reactions in the literary world of the time.
After almost a year of work in April 1926, the "Draft of Ukrainian Orthography" was published to acquaint the general public.
Likewise, the Juu languages have been claimed to have a heptagraph ⟨dts’kx’⟩, but this is also a sequence, of ⟨dts’⟩ and ⟨kx’⟩.
At the ends of sentences and often in conversation the final vowel is suppressed, and thus كِتَابُك kitābuk ("your book").
The calculator spelling 304 eventually entered common slang in the 2020s as a euphemism for a promiscuous woman (hOE, although the traditional spelling of "ho" in that sense lacks an e, and 304 more accurately spells the garden tool).
This has furthered understanding of how certain patterns of eye movement increases word recognition and processing.
While transliteration only occurs when different scripts are concerned, transcription may very well be used for different languages using the same script.
As a Greek patriot, he also stressed the link between the Language Question and the Eastern Question.
In 2005, standardized writing systems for the languages of Taiwan's 16 recognized indigenous peoples were established by the government.
Especially when describing computer algorithms, it is common to define backslash so that a\b is equivalent to ⌊a/b⌋.
Numerous other pieces of circumstantial evidence were presented to make a strong case, however not strong enough to tip the scales and end the debate.
This actually makes it more difficult for simplified character readers to distinguish the characters, since they now rely heavily on memorization.
It can also be used to indicate a spot where a character is supposed to be, but it is rarely used for other purposes.
~ /huer-in ʃi must bi rịuled bei ðe lernd from teim tu teim.~ References External links An Orthographie (1569) at the Internet Archive A Methode or comfortable beginning for all unlearned (1570) at the Internet Archive
Maunoir was found to be uniquely suited for the difficult task of evangelizing the impoverished people of Brittany.
Trediakovsky was also a prolific translator of classical authors, medieval philosophers, and French literature.
For example, বিশ্বাস (শ্ব = শ্ 'sh' + ব) (to believe) is written as " bishbāsh" but pronounced as " bishāsh" with more stress on the sh than usual, which sounds like "bishshāsh".
The criteria for the use of ideographic runes and the frequency of their use by ancient rune-writers remains controversial.
Many different character recognition algorithms have been developed to alleviate the allograph problem for different input methods, different languages, and different users.
In handwriting used for correspondence and diaries, its use for a single s seems to have disappeared first: most manuscript examples from the 19th century use it for the first s in a double s.
Its purpose is to "indicate minor breaks in text", to call attention to a passage, or to separate sub-chapters in a book.
Computer encoding Most keyboards do not have a key for the gershayim punctuation; as a result, a quotation mark is often substituted for it.
Thus, a single character can represent a variety of morphemes which originally all had the same meaning.
The style lasted as late as the Civil War era in the United States; some of Emily Dickinson's poems still capitalize many common nouns.
External links DASI (Digital Archive for the Study of pre-Islamic Arabian Inscriptions) DiCoNab (The Digital Corpus of the Nabataean and Developing Arabic Inscriptions) OCIANA (Online Corpus of the Inscriptions of Ancient North Arabia)
The majority of, and the core indigenous languages of pre-Islamic Arabia were all Semitic languages, including the Ancient North Arabian languages, Ancient South Arabian languages, and Arabic (being a Central Semitic language).
Sorting both under "Mc" is generally avoided as it can cause issues with names that do not contain the prefix (such as Macclesfield or Macey).
The bowl on the left side can be filled or empty, and occasionally extends far enough downward that the character resembles a mirrored D.
From December 1, 2012, until January 31, 2013, a stylistic disagreement unfolded between editors on the English-language Wikipedia as to whether the word "into" in the title of the Wikipedia article for the 2013 film Star Trek Into Darkness should be capitalized.
Microsoft added the single guillemets to CP1252 and similar sets used in Windows at 0x8B and 0x9B (139 and 155) (where the ISO standard placed C1 control codes).
The wave dash is similar to, but not the same as, the tilde character (U+FF5E ～ FULLWIDTH TILDE), which is often used interchangeably with it.
Poor readers with prior knowledge utilize the semantic aspects of the word, whereas proficient readers rely on only graphic information for word recognition.
Although these marks originally had no independent meaning, they have since acquired meaning in the field of mathematics and computing, for instance.
/botol/ "bottle" is realized as bótolo in Selayar and Coastal Konjo, and as bótoloʔ in Makassarese (the latter regularly adds a glottal stop to the echo vowel).
Examples on usage in Modern Standard Arabic: Fāʾ-fatḥah (فَـ /fa/) is a multi-function prefix most commonly equivalent to "so" or "so that." For example: نَكْتُب naktub ("we write") → فَنَكْتُب fanaktub ("so we write").
The Aristotelian framework would be the foundation for the conception of language in the Mediterranean world into the medieval era.
scan: A short Introduction or guiding to print, write, and reade Inglish speech at the Internet Archive Bullokar, William (1580).
For example, in Chumash, when a word ends with a glottal stop and comes at the end of an intonation unit, the final vowel is repeated after the glottal stop but is whispered and faint, as in [jaʔḁ] for /jaʔ/ "arrow" (written ya).
(A specific geometric shape that represents any particular grapheme in a given typeface is called a glyph.) In orthographic and linguistic notation, a particular glyph (character) is represented as a grapheme (is used in its graphemic sense) by enclosing it within angle brackets: e.g.
Crown Script The Crown script (خط التاج, Khat al Taj)—is a modern Arabic script fabricated by Egyptian calligrapher Mohammad Mahfouz in 1931 and proposed by then-King Fuad I.
However, in some cases, additional marks fulfil the role of diacritics, to differentiate distinct characters.
Also in this alphabet, an apostrophe was used for a stop laryngeal sound, an acute for long vowels, and a subletter circle for reduced sounds.
Following this, she went on the teach at the Institute for Aboriginal Development and Yipirinya School.
(The reading is not in any particular order; the explanation will start with the glyph in the center and then go clockwise.) In the center of the diagram is a dog's head, meaning it is a 'dog day'.
It was widely used in Sultanate of Malacca, Sultanate of Johor, Sultanate of Brunei, Sultanate of Sulu, Sultanate of Maguindanao, Sultanate of Pattani, the Sultanate of Aceh to the Sultanate of Ternate in the east as early as the 15th century.
History On 3 September 1939, Neville Chamberlain, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, reconstructed his existing government so as to be suited for the Second World War.
His Chancellor of the Exchequer, Benjamin Disraeli, was instrumental in passing the Second Reform Act in 1867.
James Stewart Forbes and Lady Angela Forbes, on 9 April 1923, and was divorced from her in June 1928, on the grounds of her adultery with Captain James Roy Notter Garton.
Zetland played an important role in the protracted negotiations which led to the Government of India Act 1935, which began, subject to the implacable opposition of Winston Churchill and the "diehards" to anything that might imperil direct British rule over India, to implement those ideals.
Having won the largest number of seats in the 2007 general election (26 out of 60) the Labour Party sought to form a coalition with a smaller party.
As part of wide criticism of policies, the resignation of many members and in response to the Brexit negotiations, Sturgeon conducted a major cabinet reshuffle in 2018.
Philip Snowden, the evangelical ex-member of the Independent Labour Party (ILP) became a rigidly orthodox Chancellor of the Exchequer, while the next two prominent members of the party, J.
History The first wholly Whig government since 1783 came to power after the Duke of Wellington's Tory government lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
The Rason Ministry was the 8th Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Ministerialist Premier Hector Rason.
The first Salmond government, which was sworn in on 17 May 2007 at the start of the 3rd Scottish Parliament, was an SNP minority government.
Douglas Alexander enters the Cabinet as Secretary of State for Transport and Secretary of State for Scotland.
23): Although the nominal leadership of the regency lay with John, Duke of Bedford (Gloucester's older brother), he spent most of his time ruling the English territories in France.
Whilst in parliament, he became an assistant government whip in 1931, served as a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury from 1932 to 1935, Vice-Chamberlain of the Household 1935–37 and Comptroller of the Household 1937–38.
The Grenville ministry was a British Government headed by George Grenville which served between 16 April 1763 and 13 July 1765.
After the war, Gwynne Jones remained in the Army, receiving a substantive lieutenant's commission in the South Wales Borderers on 24 August 1946 (with seniority from 5 June 1942), and was promoted to captain on 5 December.
Rockingham was noted for his ignorance of foreign affairs, and his ministry failed to reverse the growing isolation of Britain within Europe (Simms 2008, p.
The following ministers were then appointed to the positions, and served until the reconstitution of the Ministry on 30 June 1909.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
McLeish initially supported the war on terror, however, twenty years on he regrets that the war ultimately turned out as a "war on Islam".
The Liberal government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1859 and ended in 1866 consisted of two ministries: the second Palmerston ministry and the second Russell ministry.
This majority continued until Peter Law left Labour in 2005 to sit as an independent on the opposition benches, giving the government 29 and the opposition (excluding the Presiding Officer and Deputy) 29.
Notably for the first time in the assembly's history, parties entitled to seats on the executive could instead opt to go into formal opposition.
On 29 January 1944 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Westwood, of Gosforth in the County of Northumberland.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
He was replaced by Grant Shapps, who was Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero prior to being appointed as Defence Secretary.
Sir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
Given that it was not considered appropriate for a prime minister to be a member of the House of Lords, Alec Douglas-Home and Lord Hailsham both disclaimed their peerages under the Peerage Act 1963, and became known respectively as Sir Alec Douglas-Home and Quintin Hogg.
In the early 1920s, he spoke in the House of Commons about socialism, the League of Nations, unemployment and Ireland.
Henry Goulburn was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the future Prime Minister Lord Aberdeen Foreign Secretary and Sir James Graham Home Secretary.
It was also Swinney's final attendance to a Scottish Cabinet, having announced his retirement from government after serving under First Minister Alex Salmond and Sturgeon from 2007 until 2023.
Non-ministerial appointments Parliamentary Private Secretaries Prime Minister's Office Second Church Estates Commissioner Notes == References ==
Additionally, there were two Earls of Nottingham: the elder Nottingham served as Lord Chancellor, and his successor to the earldom served as First Lord of the Admiralty.
The administration was led by three young ministers, collectively known as the chits: Laurence Hyde (Earl of Rochester, 1682), Sidney Godolphin (Lord Godolphin, 1684) and the Robert Spencer, 2nd Earl of Sunderland.
2012 to 2013 In September 2012, Salmond made a snap reshuffle in light of the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.
Due to having to rely on the Protectionists to retain office, half of the ministry was forced to accommodate conservative Protectionists - leading to the government to sometimes be referred to as the Reid-McLean Ministry.
This minority government also managed to stay in power with unofficial deals with the Ulster Unionist Party and Scottish National Party.
His successor in the office is not a Cabinet member Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Following the 5 May 2011 elections to the fourth Northern Ireland Assembly the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
Sir Lionel Frederick Heald, (7 August 1897 – 8 November 1981) was a British barrister and Conservative Party politician.
Andrea Leadsom, previously a junior energy minister, and also the final opponent of Theresa May in the 2016 Conservative leadership election, was made environment secretary.
Heath had been elected Leader of the Conservative Party in 1965 – succeeding Alec Douglas-Home – within a few months of the party's election defeat after 13 years in government.
Angus Robertson and Mairi Gourgeon remained in their respective roles as the constitution secretary and rural affairs secretary.
He could not continue as Leader of the House of Lords, having ceased to be a member of it, but was made Minister for Education in April 1964.
The Whig Party held a majority in the House of Commons after the election in 1695, although not all Whig MPs were unswervingly loyal to the Junto.
Simon's Walthamstow constituency was split up at the "Coupon Election" in 1918 and he was defeated at the new Walthamstow East division by a margin of more than 4,000 votes.
The government resigned in early 1855 after a large parliamentary majority voted for a select committee to enquire into the incompetent management of the Crimean War.
Death and succession Fortescue died on his 70th birthday in June 1958, four days after the death of his wife, whose funeral he was too ill to attend.
She was nominated for the post of first minister by a vote of the Scottish Parliament on 18 May, defeating Scottish Conservative leader Douglas Ross and Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie by 64 votes to 31 and 4 respectively.
It is led by Michelle O'Neill of Sinn Féin as First Minister and Emma Little-Pengelly of the DUP as deputy First Minister.
Peace treaty The ministry vigorously pushed for a peace to end the War of the Spanish Succession, leading to the Treaty of Utrecht.
Prior was dismissed as premier by Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière over a conflict of interest scandal that implicated several ministers, including Prior.
Ministries of the Welsh Government See also List of British governments List of Northern Ireland Executives List of Scottish governments
Gwyneth's daughter Tamsin Dunwoody was also a politician, as a Member of the National Assembly for Wales from 2003 to 2007.
Lord Buckinghamshire (Lord Hobart before November 1804) succeeds Mulgrave at the Duchy of Lancaster.
Ben Wallace resigned as Secretary of State for Defence and was replaced by Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero Grant Shapps.
Two weeks later, on October 4, Brown resigned from cabinet, and Prentice regained the portfolios while also remaining minister of finance and agriculture.
He was a Senator of the College of Justice from 1974 to 1990, and later served as a Justice of Appeal in the Republic of Botswana from 1994 to 1996.
The government was replaced by the Drakeford government on 13 December 2018, following the resignation of Carwyn Jones as First Minister the previous day.
Adding to the charge against Simon was the claim that the administration of Herbert Hoover wanted to have the United States act against Japan and that Simon spurred the American offer.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the Reid ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the Barton government and the First Deakin ministry.
The second Drakeford government was the Labour-led government formed after the 2021 Senedd Election on 6 May 2021, with Mark Drakeford re-appointed as First Minister without opposition on 12 May 2021.
Arthur Woodburn (25 October 1890 – 1 June 1978) was a Scottish Labour Party politician who was Secretary of State for Scotland from 1947 to 1950.
The Home Secretary Lord Shelburne was appointed to succeed him, but several members of the government refused to serve under him and resigned.
The last holdover from Blair's government was Lord Grocott, who stayed on as Chief Whip in the Lords and Captain of the Gentlemen at Arms.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
Loss of majority and ministerial resignations Johnson lost his working majority on 3 September 2019, when Phillip Lee crossed the floor to join the Liberal Democrats.
Gwilym Lloyd George, younger son of former Liberal Party leader and Prime Minister David Lloyd George, replaced Sir David Maxwell Fyfe as Home Secretary in 1954.
History Upon the fall of the North ministry in March 1782, Whig Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham became prime minister for a second time.
Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 6th Senedd 2021 Senedd election 2021 Welsh Labour–Plaid Cymru agreement == References ==
Benn said that he would "stay off the buses, even if I have to find a bike", and Labour leader Harold Wilson also told an anti-apartheid rally in London he was "glad that so many Bristolians are supporting the [boycott] campaign", adding that he "wish[ed] them every success".
She was also appointed Minister of State in the Cabinet Office (Minister without Portfolio), but did not initially attend Cabinet.
Estate In 1946 the Duke transferred most of his assets to his only surviving son in an attempt to avoid a repeat of the heavy death duties which the 9th Duke had had to pay in 1908.
Five more of the original Alliance Government MPs have announced they would not be seeking reelection.
Personal life In 1930 Phillips married fellow Labour Party activist Morgan Phillips, a Welsh former miner and later the General Secretary of the Labour Party 1944–1961.
One of the major problems was that it included no figure capable of taking the lead in the House of Commons.
Formation The change of leader from Margaret Thatcher to John Major saw a dramatic turnaround in Conservative support, with the double-digit lead in the opinion polls for the Labour Party being replaced by a narrow Conservative one by the turn of 1991.
Palmerston thereafter successfully devoted his energies to bringing down Russell's government, leading to the formation of a minority Conservative government under Lord Derby in February 1852.
It was formed after the previous Prime Minister, the Earl of Bute, had resigned following fierce criticism of his signing of the Treaty of Paris with its perceived lenient terms for France and Spain despite Britain's successes in the Seven Years War.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
Sylvia Foot, Emergency Exit (Chatto & Windus, 1960) - memoir by his wife External links Entry in Encyclopædia Britannica
Having signed the Munich Agreement with Hitler in 1938, Chamberlain became alarmed by the dictator's continuing aggression and, in March 1939, signed the Anglo-Polish military alliance which supposedly guaranteed British support for Poland if attacked.
Former prime minister William Pitt the Younger reassumed the premiership of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1804, succeeding Henry Addington as First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Early life and education Darling's grandfather, Thomas Darling, was agent for James Tomkinson, Liberal MP for Crewe from 1900 to 1910.
It succeeded the Second Leake Ministry on 1 July 1902 following the death of the previous Premier, George Leake, on 24 June 1902.
Charles II's illegitimate son James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth was included in the new government because he was popular with the public.
Career After Cambridge Darling chose to enter journalism, before becoming the head of research and information at the Co-operative Wholesale Society from 1930 to 1937.
Benn's absence from the contest was reported by The Glasgow Herald to leave Neil Kinnock as "the favourite Left-wing candidate".
After the death of the previous prime minister, his brother Henry Pelham, Newcastle had formed a new administration of Whigs.
The original idea was that the National Government would be free to draw upon the talents of members of all parties, so that it would represent the nation as a whole rather than being a coalition of parties like those which had existed between 1915 and 1922.
It succeeded the James Ministry on 10 August 1904 after the 1904 election boosted Labor's seat count from 8 to 22 in the 50-seat Legislative Assembly.
Lord Palmerston, of the Whigs, first formed a government by popular demand in 1855, after the resignation of the Aberdeen Coalition.
Following Rhodri Morgan's decision to retire, a leadership contest was held for the position of Welsh Labour Leader.
Leake advised the Governor to dissolve Parliament, but the request was declined and on 12 November, Leake advised the Legislative Assembly that as soon as the Supply Bill had passed a third reading, his government would resign.
Until 1717, he held the position of Northern Secretary and was the de facto leader of the Whig administration.
Norah Mary Phillips, Baroness Phillips, JP (née Lusher; 12 August 1910 – 14 August 1992) was an English educator, Labour Party politician, magistrate and the founder of consumer and women's groups.
It is the first federal government in Australian history to be elected with a majority in the House of Representatives, as well as the first majority national Labor government in the world.
Edward William Spencer Cavendish, 10th Duke of Devonshire (6 May 1895 – 26 November 1950), known as the Marquess of Hartington from 1908 to 1938, was a British politician.
The Broad Bottom ministry was the factional coalition government of Great Britain between 1744 and 1754.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt was appointed to replace Johnson, whilst Hunt's former post was filled by Culture Secretary Matthew Hancock.
February 2022 – 5 July 2022 Changes Oliver Dowden resigned as Co-Chairman of the Conservative Party and Minister without Portfolio on 24 June 2022 following the Conservative defeats at the Tiverton and Honiton by-election and Wakefield by-election.
Heald was junior counsel to the Board of Trade from 1931 to 1937, when he was appointed King's Counsel.
Alex Salmond formed the second Salmond government on 19 May 2011 following his Scottish National Party's landslide victory in the 2011 election to the 4th Scottish Parliament.
The tax liability led to the transfer of Hardwick Hall to the National Trust, and the sale of many of the Devonshires' accumulated assets, including tens of thousands of acres of land, and many works of art and rare books.
He was promoted lieutenant colonel in command in 1924 and colonel in 1930 and in 1935 he became Colonel Commandant of the Honourable Artillery Company.
The most influential member of the government was Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle, a former prime minister, who served as Lord Privy Seal.
Devonshire was left to lead a ministry that was manifestly far too weak to survive long—particularly in wartime.
This reform assisted women by linking pensions to the 'twenty best years' of earnings, and those who worked at home caring for children or others were counted as contributors.
Palmerston was heavily criticised by Parliament in 1857 over the conduct of the Second Opium War and called a dissolution, but the nation voiced its support in the resulting general election and he returned with a Whig majority.
Between 1757 and 1762, at the height of the Seven Years' War, the Pitt–Newcastle ministry governed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Supporting these peers were two unofficial whips in the House of Lords: the earls of Sunderland and Portland.
In Committee however, as one study noted, "it was soon made evident that if all the provisions of the Bill were adhered to, it would never get through," so in the end the bill was limited to the female voting age provision.
Notes References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities
Macmillan chose Dundee minister without portfolio from 1958 to 1961 owing to a wealth of experiences at home and abroad.
The second Broad Bottom administration lasted from Pelham's resumption of power until his death in 1754.
Rajoy himself was facing increased pressure for independence from Spain in Catalonia, and as such, said that "an independent Scotland could only apply to join the EU from outside the organisation as a new state".
The Rule of Democracy, 1905–1914 (vol 6 of "History of the English People, 1905–1914") (1934); online Hay, James Roy.
The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom that began in 1922 and ended in 1924 consisted of two ministries: the Law ministry (from 1922 to 1923) and then the first Baldwin ministry (from 1923 onwards).
List of ministers See also Executive Council of Alberta List of Alberta provincial ministers References Works cited Further reading Alberta.
It was a very unsure period as no one knew if James would come back, or if the people would accept a new king.
Jayne Bryant, the previous Mental Health and Early Years Minister, was made Cabinet Secretary for Local Government and Housing, replacing Julie James.
His father was an Anglo-Irish businessman and politician who graduated with a law degree from Cambridge University before entering politics as a member of the London County Council and then, in 1910, as a member of the British House of Commons, later serving as Governor General of Canada.
As the name suggests, the ministry was a coalition of the groups supporting Charles James Fox and Lord North.
Ministry Principal ministers of the Crown were as follows: See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
She was the first Roman Catholic life peeress and was the first female government whip in the House of Lords, as Baroness-in-Waiting 1965–70.
It was this government which would conduct the Second Boer War from 1899–1902, which helped them to win a landslide victory at the 1900 general election.
Defeat The government lost its majority at the 1911 general election, but managed to stay in office with the support of independent MPs until the following year.
The second McConnell government (20 May 2003 – 16 May 2007) was formed following the 2003 general election to the 2nd Scottish Parliament.
Improvements were made in conditions for nursing staff following the publication of a report by the NBPI in 1968 on the pay of nurses.
In the latter post, he served for nine years during which he oversaw crises such as the Abdication Crisis of Edward VIII.
At first, Leader of the Opposition Frederick Henry Piesse was asked to form a Ministry, but on 18 November he advised that he had been unable to form an acceptable Ministry, and Alf Morgans was sent for.
July 1988 – Department of Health and Social Security broken up into component parts: John Moore continues on as Secretary of State for Social Security.
This is a list of the principal Ministers of the Crown of the Kingdom of England, and then of the Kingdom of Great Britain, from May 1702, at the beginning of the reign of Queen Anne.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
Lord Clarendon was impeached by the House of Commons and forced to flee; the Duke of Albemarle sold his position to George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham; and Sir George Carteret simply left his position, eventually being forced out of the House two years later.
He was the first Tory prime minister since the Harley ministry during 1710–1714 though his ministry was largely made up of Whigs.
May 1940 – Sir Terence O'Connor dies and no new Solicitor General is appointed before the government falls.
On 20 October 2022, amid growing disapproval of her leadership from within the Conservative Party, Truss announced her resignation, making her tenure the shortest in the history of the United Kingdom.
After several scandals including allegations of the sale of honours, the Conservatives withdrew their support after a meeting at the Carlton Club in 1922, and Bonar Law formed a government.
Both had been political advisers to her at the Home Office, then worked outside government for a brief period before coming back to work on her leadership campaign.
*** Indicates that the individual was either sacked or quit and held no ministerial role in the next government.
Defeated by the Conservative incumbent in Sunderland South in the 1955 and 1959 General Elections, Armstrong was Member of Parliament (MP) for North West Durham from 1964 until his retirement in 1987.
He contributed an article on The Strategic Defence Initiative to the Conservative Monday Club's October 1985 Conservative Party Conference issue of their newspaper, Right Ahead.
In a break from the previous non-partisan governments, it was the first to be composed on party lines, and consisted of members of the Conservative Party.
The Impact of Hitler: British Politics and British Policy, 1933–1940 (Cambridge University Press, 1975).
With inflation firmly under control and union reforms contributing towards the lowest level of strikes since the early 1950s, the Conservatives were now faced with the challenge of reducing unemployment from a record high of 3,200,000.
Following his resignation, the environment portfolio was combined with that of rural development, planning was added to the transport portfolio, and the sport and culture portfolio was given Deputy Minister Allan Wilson without a promotion to minister.
Stimson calling for a joint Anglo-American declaration stating that they would never establish diplomatic relations with the sham state of Manchukuo, which was viewed in Japan as a pro-Japanese gesture that reflected a quiet sympathy for Japan's actions.
In 2014, Lib Dem minister Norman Lamb warned that "it could be enormously damaging for [the Lib Dems]" if the party went into coalition with Miliband's Labour.
It succeeded the Morgans Ministry on 23 December 1901 after a series of ministerial by-elections to confirm that ministry resulted in half of the ministry being defeated by Opposition and Labour candidates.
He was educated at elementary school in Crewe, and started work at 14 in the railway sheds of the town.
However, no clear winner emerged from the April 1901 state election, and rather than test his support in the Assembly, Throssell and the Ministry he led resigned on 27 May 1901, allowing the Leake Ministry led by Opposition Leader George Leake to take office.
May 2003 – Clare Short resigns and is succeeded by Baroness Amos as International Development Secretary.
Yousaf offered Kate Forbes, who he had beaten in the leadership race, a demotion as rural affairs secretary, but she turned down this offer and left government.
In the 2003 Scottish Parliament election, the Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition was renewed and Jack McConnell returned to a second term as first minister and formed a second administration.
The ministry, a Conservative majority government, succeeded the second Cameron ministry which had been formed following the 2015 general election.
It ended on 20 May 2003 following the 2003 election to the 2nd Scottish parliament, which saw McConnell returning to office as first minister to form a second government.
Lord Bessborough died in December 1993, aged 80, when the earldom of Bessborough created in the Peerage of the United Kingdom for his father in 1937 became extinct.
Chalfont was the author of several military history books on subjects including the Napoleonic Wars.
This deadline was later extended to 29 June after Prime Minister, Theresa May's decision to call a snap general election for 8 June 2017.
He was Secretary of the Scottish Council of the Labour Party from 1932 to 1939, and President of the National Council of Labour Colleges from 1937 to 1965.
Gilruth was succeeded by Neil Gray who was appointed Minister for Culture, Europe and International Development and Minister with special responsibility for Refugees from Ukraine.
Prime Minister, the Cabinet Office and non-Departmental ministers Departments of state Law officers Parliament Whips References General Ministers in the Labour Governments: 1997–2010 – Parliamentary Information List, House of Commons Library, 3 July 2012 D.
Military career The then Marquess of Hartington began service with the Territorial Army as a second lieutenant in the Derbyshire Yeomanry in 1913.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for war services in 1942 and Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1946 Birthday Honours.
Fate The Conservative Party, with the support of the Liberal Unionists, gained a decisive victory in the July 1886 general election, and Lord Salisbury once again became prime minister.
The Michael administration was formed by Alun Michael following the 1999 National Assembly for Wales election and was a Labour minority administration.
He died on 2 January 1986, aged 84, and was succeeded in the barony by his son Robin Evelyn Leo Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone.
The National Government of 1935–1937 was formed by Stanley Baldwin on his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V, following the resignation of Ramsay MacDonald in June 1935.
She was made a life peer on 21 December 1964 as Baroness Phillips, of Fulham in the County of London.
Parliamentary career At the 1950 general election, Heald was elected as member of parliament for the Chertsey constituency in Surrey, having been previously defeated in St Pancras South West in the 1945 general election.
Butler (ed.), Twentieth Century British Political Facts 1900–2000 Notes External links "Ministerial Departures since 1997 – Parliamentary Information List" (PDF).
In addition, a new post of Deputy Minister for Transport and Planning in line with the expanded transport portfolio.
Shortly after 1879 her grandfather Hugh Fortescue, 4th Earl Fortescue (1854–1932), Master of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds 1880/81–87, had acquired the reversion of the whole of the former Royal Forest of Exmoor after the death of Frederick Winn Knight.
Cabinets June 1866 – February 1868 Notes This Cabinet of Derby's is the first for which a complete collection of photographs exists of its members.
Leading members See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1757 in Great Britain Notes References Works cited == Further reading ==
It succeeded the Rason Ministry on 7 May 1906 after Rason resigned to accept an appointment as Agent-General for Western Australia in London.
Derby's health, however, had been in decline for some time, and he finally resigned in February and advised Queen Victoria to send for Disraeli.
Halifax wanted to sue for peace by asking Benito Mussolini to broker a treaty between the British government and Hitler.
Woodburn was an unsuccessful candidate for Edinburgh South in 1929 and Edinburgh Leith in 1931; he was Member of Parliament (MP) for Clackmannan and East Stirlingshire from 1939 until 1970.
June 1939 – Herwald Ramsbotham succeeds Sir Philip Sassoon (deceased) as First Commissioner of Works and is succeeded as Minister of Pensions by Sir Walter Womersley.
Cabinet Junior ministers See also List of Welsh Assembly Governments 2003 National Assembly for Wales election Members of the 2nd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
Dewar was re-elected in the 1978 Glasgow Garscadden by-election and served as the MP until his death in 2000.
History Eluned Morgan was nominated and appointed to succeed Vaughan Gething as first minister of Wales on 6 August 2024.
However, Goderich's government never even met in a session of Parliament, and was replaced by a High Tory government under the Duke of Wellington on 22 January 1828.
References Leigh Rayment's Peerage Pages Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Albert Murray
Castle Hill is now the home of her daughter Eleanor, Countess of Arran (née van Cutsem) and her husband Arthur Gore, 9th Earl of Arran.
This government did not long survive the hostility of King George III, and many of Shelburne's ministers returned to office under the leadership of William Pitt the Younger in December 1783, though Shelburne himself was consoled with the title Marquess of Lansdowne.
He remained in power until 1756 when his government collapsed following the fall of Minorca and the fierce criticism that he had come under for his handling of the Seven Years' War that was engulfing Europe.
A new coalition government (officially referred to as the Coalition Partnership) was officially announced on 5 October 2000 with policy details emerging the day later.
Butler continued to serve under him for another two years, but devotes only a single paragraph to this period in his memoirs.
Cabinet Changes November 2005 – David Blunkett resigns his post as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.
Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 4 May 1979 to 28 November 1990, during which time she led a Conservative majority government.
Fate The Duke oversaw the introduction of Catholic Emancipation, but remained resolutely opposed to parliamentary reform, and as a result lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
Harold Macmillan, formerly Foreign Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer, was chosen over Rab Butler as the new party leader and consequently as prime minister.
Upon Lord Stanhope's death, Robert Walpole, widely considered the first true Prime Minister of Great Britain, returned to head the government.
He was Conservative Member of Parliament for Flintshire from 1945 to 1950 and for West Flintshire from 1950 to 1970.
The government oversaw the establishment of Crown rule in India, but was still not strong enough to retain power, falling in June 1859.
Sam Galbraith and Angus MacKay stood down and Jackie Baillie, Sarah Boyack and Tom McCabe reshuffled out of government, while Susan Deacon was offered the post of social justice minister but refused the offer and moved to the backbenches.
Following the eruption of a scandal involving the improper granting of land, Prior fired the two ministers implicated, David McEwen Eberts and Wilmer Cleveland Wells.
2 The responsibility for Education lay with the Colonial Secretary in the Forrest Ministry except during the period 19 December 1894 – 28 April 1898.
The Ministry of All the Talents had comparatively little success, failing to bring the sought-after peace with France.
It governed Canada from 11 July 1896 to 5 October 1911, including all of the 8th, 9th, 10th, and 11th Canadian Parliaments.
He also had company directorships with The Alliance Insurance Company of Britain and the Bank of Australasia.
6th Executive of Northern Ireland See also List of Northern Ireland Executives 7th Northern Ireland Assembly == References ==
Following negotiations with the Plaid Cymru leader, a second vote on 18 May saw Jones re-elected unopposed as First Minister, enabling him to begin the process of forming a minority government.
When the king fell ill and his brother's return from the Dutch Republic caused alarm in the country, Temple expressed his concerns to the triumvirate but was no longer taken seriously.
April 1863 – George Robinson, 3rd Earl de Grey becomes Secretary for War following Sir George Lewis's death.
Career Salter joined the Civil Service in 1904 and worked in the transport department of the Admiralty, on national insurance, and as private secretary, being promoted to Assistant Secretary grade in 1913.
Thus the First Lord of the Treasury came to be the most powerful minister and the prototype of Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and its dominions.
All of those children are being cheated of a sound start in life." In May 1988, Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government introduced Section 28.
Humza Yousaf succeeded Sturgeon as first minister, forming his first cabinet of the Scottish Government on 29 March 2023.
Simon and Smith began a rivalry that lasted throughout their legal and political careers over the next 30 years.
Family Somervell married Loelia Helen Buchan-Hepburn, daughter of Sir Archibald Buchan-Hepburn, 4th Baronet, in 1933.
5 July 2022 – 6 September 2022 Changes Sajid Javid resigned as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 5 July.
"The Struggle for Mastery in Britain: Lloyd George versus Asquith, December 1916." Journal of British Studies 18#1 (1978): 131–156.
The Second Leake Ministry was the fifth Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Premier George Leake, who had hitherto been the Leader of the Opposition.
The fourth Rhodri Morgan government (19 July 2007 – 10 December 2009) was a Labour–Plaid Cymru coalition government of Wales led by First Minister for Wales, Rhodri Morgan.
His spot in the cabinet was filled by Zac Goldsmith, who was made Minister of State at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and at the Department for International Development on 10 September 2019.
The government was widely criticised for its handling of foreign affairs, particularly for allowing the Republic of Corsica, a British ally, to fall to the French during the Corsican Crisis.
Political career After leaving Oxford, he joined the Territorial Army on 8 April 1927, as a second lieutenant in the 6th/7th Battalion of the Black Watch.
He was President of the National Union of Railwaymen from 1934 to 1937 before being succeeded by Walter T.
After the Labour Party won the 1964 general election, Foot became Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and Permanent Representatives from the United Kingdom to the United Nations from 1964 to 1970.
The government included several men from the previous administration, but four of the most important, Lords Dudley and Palmerston and Messrs Huskisson and Grant, resigned in May 1828.
Norman Russell Wylie, Lord Wylie, (26 October 1923 – 7 September 2005) was a Scottish Conservative and Scottish Unionist politician, lawyer, and judge.
Edward Henry Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, younger son of Harcourt Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, 1st Baron Derwent.
Speaking to the Oxford Union on the alleged overshadowing of the EU debate by "UKIP and Tory backbenchers", he said:I took the view that having fought [Europeans in the Second World War] that we should now work with them, and co-operate, and that was my first thought about it.
Cabinet Changes 20 December 1955 reshuffle Rab Butler succeeded Harry Crookshank as Lord Privy Seal and Leader of the House of Commons.
Derek Colclough Walker-Smith, Baron Broxbourne, (13 April 1910 – 22 January 1992), known as Sir Derek Walker-Smith, Bt, from 1960 to 1983, was a British Conservative Party politician.
The Asquith coalition ministry was the Government of the United Kingdom under the Liberal prime minister H.
Changes August 1876: Beaconsfield succeeds the Earl of Malmesbury as Lord Privy Seal while remaining First Lord of the Treasury.
Simultaneously he was Assistant Deputy Leader of the House of Lords from 1960 to 1962 and Deputy Leader of the House of Lords from 1962 to 1964.
He travelled hastily to the capital and met the King at Richmond Lodge who invited him to form a government.
The Shops Act 1950 consolidated previous legislation which provided that no one could be employed in a shop for more than six hours without having a break for at least 20 minutes.
Brown was an ally of former premier Joseph Martin, and his appointment was opposed by Richard McBride – Martin's political rival – who resigned from cabinet in protest.
The Labour Party chose to go into minority government, and Rhodri Morgan was re-elected first minister on 26 May 2007.
The Ministry of All the Talents was a national unity government in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland formed by William Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville, on his appointment as prime minister on 11 February 1806, following the death of William Pitt the Younger.
Cabinet Junior ministers Retirement of Rhodri Morgan See also Members of the 3rd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
He continued serving after the war with his regiment, which became 24 (Derbyshire Yeomanry) Armoured Car Company of the Royal Tank Regiment in 1923.
The first McConnell government was formed by Jack McConnell on 27 November 2001 during the 1st Scottish Parliament, following Henry McLeish's resignation as First Minister of Scotland as a consequence of the Officegate scandal.
In 1919, Woodburn married Barbara Halliday, a teacher who was elected to the Edinburgh Town Council.
In 1935, he was PPS to the Secretary of State for Scotland before being promoted as Under-Secretary of State for Scotland until the outbreak of the war.
Stanley Baldwin of the Conservative Party formed the second Baldwin ministry upon his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V after the 1924 general election.
The Labour Party had won a landslide victory at the 1945 general election, and went on to enact policies of what became known as the post-war consensus, including the establishment of the welfare state and the nationalisation of 20 per cent of the entire economy.
Shapps was replaced as Energy Secretary by Claire Coutinho, who was a junior minister in the Department for Education at the time, Coutinho herself being replaced by backbencher David Johnston.
The government dissolved and was succeeded by the McLeish government in the aftermath of Dewar's death on 11 October 2000.
During the Nootka Sound Controversy in 1790, Pitt took advantage of the alliance to force Spain to give up its claim to exclusive control over the western coast of North and South America.
Angela Constance, who previously served in the cabinets of Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon, returned to cabinet as the justice secretary.
2 Richard Pennefather had served as Attorney-General since 27 October 1897 as part of the Forrest Ministry.
In respective order, the MPs who left government are Gilbert Licudi (GSLP), Paul Balban (GSLP), Albert Isola (GSLP), Samantha Sacramento (GSLP) and Steven Linares (LPG).
Rochester, brother-in-law of King Charles II's brother James, Duke of York, served as First Lord of the Treasury until "kicked upstairs" (term coined by Lord Halifax) as Lord President of the Council in September 1684.
Jones maintained the existing One Wales coalition agreement with Plaid Cymru, established by Morgan.
It is often referred to as the only government ever to have been made up almost entirely of members of the Jockey Club, with Rockingham himself being a prominent patron and follower of the turf.
Following the war he went to India where he served as an instructor at the Cavalry School at Sangor.
The government was also supported by the sole Welsh Liberal Democrat MS Kirsty Williams and the independent MS Dafydd Elis-Thomas.
In 1916, when promoted captain, he rejoined his regiment, in Egypt, and served in the latter stages of the Dardanelles campaign.
On 4 October 1954 Somervell became a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary and, as a Law Lord, he received a life peerage as Baron Somervell of Harrow, of Ewelme in the County of Oxford.
During the First World War (1914–18) he served in France as a regimental officer for the Scots Greys, followed by the Royal Corps of Signals.
A young William Ewart Gladstone held office as a Junior Lord of the Treasury, his first governmental post in a ministerial career that would span for the next sixty years.
Political life Entering politics, he was a minister in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office from 1964 to 1970 and from 1964 was appointed to the Privy Council.
In addition to the £20 million contributed by HM Treasury, the Foreign Office contributed £10 million whilst the Scottish Executive was expected to pay the remaining £65 million.
She was a long-serving London magistrate and co-founder of the National Association of Women's Clubs (1935).
Life Armstrong was educated at Wolsingham Grammar School and City of Leeds Teacher Training College, and ultimately became a headmaster.
On 29 June 2017, the DUP and Sinn Féin had both announced that they had not come to an agreement to form the next Northern Ireland Executive.
The government was led by Bonar Law and Stanley Baldwin, appointed respectively as Prime Minister by King George V.
His grave can be found in the grounds of Saint Mary's Church in Ewelme, opposite that of the writer Jerome K.
Dundee was successfully promoted to number two in the Foreign Office as Minister of State for Foreign Affairs from 1961 to 1964.
Cabinet See also 1722 British general election 1727 British general election 5th Parliament of Great Britain Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
Asquith, Venetia Stanley, and Edwin Montagu, Based on the Life and Letters of Edwin Samuel Montagu (NYU Press, 1991).
He was admitted to the Privy Council in 1952 and received the very great honour of being appointed a Knight Companion of the Order of the Garter in 1951.
Sturgeon's cabinet dissolved on 18 May 2016 following the 2016 election to the 5th Scottish parliament, which saw Sturgeon returning to office and forming a second government.
Osborne was also given the honorific title of First Secretary of State, which had been held by William Hague in the preceding ministry.
While the term was in common parlance in the 19th and early 20th centuries, it has become rarer, except in official and academic uses.
Newspaper clippings about Lawrence Dundas, 2nd Marquess of Zetland in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
They had a son and a daughter, with their daughter Gwyneth Dunwoody, becoming a long-serving Labour Member of Parliament.
Social Services and welfare Increased funds were allocated to social services during the first Wilson government's time in office.
In September 1912, he was appointed (with Lord Islington, Herbert Fisher, Mr Justice Abdur Rahim, and others) as a member of the Royal Commission on the Public Services in India of 1912–1915.
Flight Sergeant Lord Bruce Thomas Dundas (18 October 1920 – 24 February 1942), killed in action with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve.
July 2014 – May 2015 Changes On 5 August 2014, Baroness Warsi resigned as Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and as Minister for Faith and Community, in protest at the Government's response to the conflict in the Gaza Strip.
He argued that traditional social democratic values were under threat in an increasingly globalised world in which powerful institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Commission are unelected and unaccountable to those whose lives they affect daily.
After the official Liberal Party withdrew from the latter government in 1933, another faction, the National Liberals, remained in coalition with the Conservatives.
The government was brought down by Peel's decision in 1846 to support the repeal of the Corn Laws, leading to a split in the Tory party and the formation of a Whig government under Lord John Russell.
Early in 1852 Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, by then very deaf, gave Derby's first government its nickname by shouting "Who?
This is a list of members of the government of the United Kingdom in office under the leadership of Spencer Perceval from 1809 to 1812.
Initially the ministers were largely identical to those at the end of the first Johnson ministry, excepting the Secretary of State for Wales, in which position Simon Hart replaced Alun Cairns.
It was the successor of the Cabal ministry which fell from power when the Catholicism of some members became a problem for parliament.
He served as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster in the short-lived Churchill caretaker ministry (May–July 1945).
He was succeeded in the Irish earldom of Bessborough and the remaining family titles by his first cousin, Arthur Ponsonby.
He was also Honorary Colonel of the 6th Battalion of the Sherwood Foresters from 1917 to 1937, and of its successor, the 40th (Sherwood Foresters) Anti-Aircraft Battalion of the Royal Engineers.
However, the administration was not a true national unity government as it was made up primarily of Conservatives with support from some National Labour and National Liberal members.
Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool was invited by the Prince Regent to form a government on 8 June 1812.
19 February 1942: Attlee is appointed Deputy Prime Minister with general responsibility for domestic affairs.
After much negotiation, Montagu, Somers, and Orford were given places within the new ministry, with Montagu and Somers accepting, and Orford stating that he would rather be "drawn through a horse-pond" than be First Commissioner of the Admiralty.
The king would give full consideration to the opinions of the council, which would be free to discuss and vote on all matters.
The first devolved executive of Scotland, it consisted of Scottish Labour and the Scottish Liberal Democrats, who formed a coalition on 14 May 1999.
In order to maintain a comfortable parliamentary majority, Grafton had drawn the Bedford Whigs (Earl Gower, Viscount Weymouth, and the Earl of Hillsborough) into the ministry at the end of 1767.
He served as Solicitor General and Attorney General from 1933 to 1945 and was briefly Home Secretary in Winston Churchill's 1945 caretaker government.
The Watson ministry (Labour) was the 3rd ministry of the Government of Australia, and the first national Labour government formed in the world.
David Lloyd George: a political life: Organizer of Victory: 1912–1916 (1987) online Gilbert, Bentley Brinkerhoff.
The Junto oversaw the creation of the Bank of England in 1694, but by 1699 the Junto's power had declined in the face of opposition by Robert Harley and the Tories.
History Formation The Duke of Wellington finally came to power after the abortive attempt at a Canningite-Whig coalition government came to an end with Viscount Goderich's resignation in January 1828.
The first Jones government (10 December 2009 – 11 May 2011) was a continuation of the previous Labour–Plaid Cymru coalition government in Wales.
External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Arthur Woodburn National Library of Scotland catalogue of papers National Library of Scotland additional papers
On 7 and 8 May 1940, a two-day debate took place in Parliament, known to history as the Norway Debate.
Donald Dewar formed the Dewar government on 17 May 1999 following his appointment as the inaugural First Minister of Scotland.
Cabinet Changes May 2002 – Stephen Byers resigns and the Department of Transport, Local Government & the Regions is broken up.
While not an official coalition, it would be the first time in both Scottish and UK history that Green politicians would be in government.
Although supporting the Liberal Party by inclination, its decline and his admiration for Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin led him to join the Conservative Party.
Serena Frances Fairfax; Nicholas Fairfax, 14th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, who married Annabella Ruth, eldest daughter of Nicholas and Sarah Gilham Morriss, and succeeded his father; The Hon.
Following the 2 March 2017 elections to the sixth Northern Ireland Assembly, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
History Following the defeat of the campaign for Scottish independence in a 2014 referendum, then First Minister Alex Salmond, who had arranged the referendum, announced that he would resign as Scottish National Party leader and first minister after a new leader was chosen.
Edward Stanhope succeeds him at the Board of Trade; his successor as Vice-President of the Council is not in the Cabinet.
William Gladstone, who was yet to join the Liberal Party, became a member of the cabinet for the first time in 1843 when he was appointed President of the Board of Trade.
The Baldwin Age (1960), essays by scholars 252 pages; online Archived 10 October 2019 at the Wayback Machine Smart, Nick.
The second Sturgeon government was an SNP minority government and despite the whipping and resignation of some MSPs, this was also returned by Labour and Conservative opposition MSPs.
The Duke of Newcastle stays on as Secretary of State for War, while Sir George Grey becomes Secretary of State for the Colonies.
Background and education Salter was the eldest son of James Edward Salter (1857–1937) of the Thames boating company Salters Steamers, and who became Mayor of Oxford in 1909.
The ministry was replaced by the Second Deakin ministry on 5 July 1905 after the Protectionists withdrew their support and returned to office with the support of the Labour Party.
Lady Margaret devoted much time to attempting to put the Exmoor estate, purchased by her grandfather largely for his sporting interest, onto a profitable footing.
Billy Hughes, who died in 1952, was the last surviving member of the Watson ministry; Hughes was also the last surviving member of the First Fisher ministry, Third Fisher ministry, Second Hughes ministry and Third Hughes ministry.
Woodburn died in Edinburgh on 1 June 1978, aged 87, after a car crash he was involved in when driving to visit his wife in hospital.
Lady Doris was the eldest daughter of Terence Hamilton-Temple-Blackwood, 2nd Marquess of Dufferin and Ava.
John Elvidge stood down as the Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government in June 2010 and was succeeded by Peter Housden.
Lord Derwent married Marie-Louise Henriette Picard, daughter of Albert Picard of Paris, France, in 1929.
In July 2022, following a government crisis as a result of dozens of resignations from his government, Johnson announced his resignation as leader of the Conservative Party.
In 2001 she gave a lengthy interview for the Exmoor Oral History Archive of the Dulverton and District Civic Society, which provides a valuable insight into many aspects of modern Devon history.
References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities Notes
The Second Fisher ministry succeeded the Third Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 29 April 1910 following the federal election that took place on 13 April which saw Labor defeat the Alfred Deakin's Liberal Party.
He then joined the Inner Temple, but his legal training was interrupted by the outbreak of the First World War.
Long standing ministers such as Shona Robison and Angela Constance announced their resignation due to personal circumstances, with Keith Brown resigning to take his role as SNP Depute Leader.
This is a list of the principal government ministers during the reign of Elizabeth I of England, 1558 to 1603.
The King disliked Pitt, but Pitt's influence in the Commons had led to his crucial appointment as Southern Secretary in a ministry nominally headed by Devonshire.
On 11 May, Churchill met Morrison and Ernest Bevin, the coalition's minister of labour, telling them that he wished to maintain the coalition until Japan had been defeated.
Godolphin, First Lord of the Treasury 1684–85, was retained at the Treasury by William III, returning as First Lord in the Carmarthen Ministry of 1690.
The other Liberal faction in the Ministry, the Liberal National Party, had accepted the Conservative policy of protectionism before the National government had been formed so its ministers continued in office.
Cabinet May 1999 to October 2000 Changes Lord Hardie unexpectedly resigned from his post as Lord Advocate on 17 February 2000.
Ministers not in Cabinet Henry Seymour Conway – Commander-in-Chief of the Forces Henry Dundas – Treasurer of the Navy Sir George Yonge, 5th Baronet – Secretary at War Isaac Barré – Paymaster of the Forces Charles Manners, 4th Duke of Rutland – Lord Steward of the Household Notes == References ==
Marriage and progeny On 8 February 1917 in London, Fortescue married Margaret Beaumont, a daughter of Wentworth Beaumont, 1st Viscount Allendale by his wife Lady Alexandrina Vane-Tempest, a daughter of George Vane-Tempest, 5th Marquess of Londonderry.
Hilary Armstrong becomes Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Minister for the Cabinet Office and Minister for Social Exclusion.
In accordance with Tory wishes in the ministry, Robert Harley was elected Speaker of the House of Commons.
The Walpole ministry was led by Whig Prime Minister Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford, from 1730 to 1742—when Walpole left the government.
In response, Henry McLeish, the Minister for Enterprise and Lifelong Learning in the Dewar government confirmed that "efforts would be made to gather exact statistics to tackle the issue".
History Formation In February 1905, the federal government of Prime Minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier introduced legislation to create two new provinces (Alberta and Saskatchewan) from the Northwest Territories.
January 1919 – Law becomes Lord Privy Seal, remaining Leader of the House of Commons, and is succeeded as Chancellor of the Exchequer by Chamberlain; both remaining in the War Cabinet.
Though both Grafton, who had already been moving away from the Rockinghams due to his strong admiration for Pitt, and Conway remained in the ministry, Saunders and a large number of non-cabinet officeholders from the Rockingham faction resigned their positions.
The Dunsmuir ministry was the combined Cabinet that governed British Columbia from June 15, 1900, to November 21, 1902.
Cabinet January 1828 – November 1830 Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
On the outbreak of war, he was recalled to the Admiralty, and became director of ship requisitioning.
John Prescott's Office of the Deputy Prime Minister assumes the Local Government & the Regions portfolio.
It was formed following the 1900 general election, in which the incumbent premier, Joseph Martin, failed to gain a majority; he subsequently recommended Dunsmuir as the next government leader.
Marriage and children In 1917, he married Lady Mary Gascoyne-Cecil, granddaughter of Prime Minister Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury.
The inclusion of Charles James Fox surprised some as King George III had previously been very hostile to Fox, but the King's willingness to put aside past enmities for the sake of national unity encouraged many others to join or support the government as well.
The Reid ministry succeeded the Watson ministry, which dissolved on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support and Chris Watson was forced to resign.
A seven-year limit in connection with war pensions was also removed, while a programme for afforestation was increased.
Donald Bradley Somervell, Baron Somervell of Harrow, (24 August 1889 – 18 November 1960) was a British barrister, judge and Conservative Party politician.
Changes February 1853: Lord John Russell becomes Minister without Portfolio, remaining Leader of the Commons.
The Truss ministry began on 6 September 2022 when Liz Truss was invited by Queen Elizabeth II—two days before the monarch's death—to succeed Boris Johnson as prime minister of the United Kingdom.
In 1920 he was appointed the first Secretary General to the Reparation Commission established by the Treaty of Versailles, a position he held from 1920 to 1922.
One of the major problems facing the government was the Great Irish Famine (1845–1849), which Russell failed to deal with effectively.
Ultimately, the ministry collapsed under the weight of attack from Whigs against Halifax, who voluntarily withdrew.
Butler called him "Micawber Salter" because of his opposition to Butler's proposal to let the pound float ("Operation ROBOT").
The nominal leader of the Party, Spencer Cavendish, Marquess of Hartington, resigned in Gladstone's favour and Gladstone was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom for a second time by Queen Victoria.
He was educated at Harrow before reading chemistry with a demyship at Magdalen College, Oxford, graduating with a First in 1911.
Membership Shown here is a table showing the main membership of the Danby Ministry for its duration.
Disraeli's foreign policy was seen as immoral by Gladstone, and following the latter's Midlothian campaign, the government was heavily defeated in the 1880 general election, whereupon Gladstone formed his second government.
Between May 2016 and December 2018 the senior tier of ministers were referred to as Cabinet Secretaries and the junior tier as Ministers, from the formation of this government they reverted to their previous titles of Cabinet Ministers and Deputy Ministers respectively.
See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1754 British general election Great Britain in the Seven Years' War Notes Works cited == Further reading ==
David Lloyd George had been expected to join the government after recovering from surgery following an operation on his prostate as he was still the official leader of the Liberal party.
It succeeded the Throssell Ministry on 27 May 1901 after George Throssell's resignation as premier following the inconclusive result of the April 1901 state election.
The government of Great Britain was under the joint leadership of Prime Minister Robert Walpole (in the House of Commons) and Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend (in the House of Lords), from 1721 until Townshend departed from the government in 1730.
The Conservative government of the United Kingdom that began in 1957 and ended in 1964 consisted of three ministries: the first Macmillan ministry, second Macmillan ministry, and then the Douglas-Home ministry.
He was elected President of the Royal Geographical Society in 1922 and President of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland for 1928–31.
King O'Malley, who died in 1953, was the last surviving member of the Second Fisher ministry; O'Malley was also the last surviving member of the First Hughes ministry.
Cabinet February 1855 – February 1858 Changes Later in February 1855 – Sir George Cornewall Lewis succeeds Gladstone as Chancellor of the Exchequer.
In a list compiled by the magazine New Statesman in 2006, he was voted twelfth in the list of "Heroes of our Time".
Patrick Robin Gilbert Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, 4th Baron Derwent (26 October 1901 – 2 January 1986), was a British peer and Conservative politician.
Sturgeon, who had been Deputy First Minister under Salmond, was elected to succeed him by the SNP majority in the Scottish Parliament on 19 November 2014, before being officially sworn in in front of senior judges at the Court of Session the next day.
He then joined the Reynolds News until 1942 before becoming industrial correspondent for the BBC reporting team from 1942 to 1949.
It was formed as a multi-party war-time coalition nine months after the beginning of the First World War but collapsed when the Conservative Party withdrew.
Her mother was a socialist and suffragette from Cumberland and her father William Lusher hailed from Norfolk and served in the Indian Army.
They married on 29 September 1948, and were the parents of one daughter, Lady Charlotte Mary Roberte Paul Ponsonby (b.
Cabinets Wilson ministry Callaghan ministry Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
However, there were sharp ideological divisions among the five, ranging from the Parliamentary idealism of Ashley to the autocratic absolutism of Lauderdale.
Labour Identities and Crisis, 1922–1931, Oxford: OUP 2002; ISBN 0-19-820304-7 Marquand, David Ramsay MacDonald, (London: Jonathan Cape 1977); ISBN 0-224-01295-9; the standard scholarly biography; favourable Marquand, David.
History Following the split in the Tory Party over the Corn Laws in 1846 and the consequent end of Sir Robert Peel's second government, the Whigs came to power under Lord John Russell.
The ministry was formed on 9 August 1710, when Harley was appointed as Chancellor of the Exchequer, and was dissolved upon Harley's dismissal as Lord High Treasurer.
Malcolm MacDonald succeeds Stanley (deceased) as Dominions Secretary, remaining also Colonial Secretary.
It was said that there were some attempts to distinguish between the two offices, but in the century or more since, they have remained one and the same.
However, following her death, Bedford married Jacquetta of Luxembourg, which the Duke of Burgundy disapproved of and Burgundy made peace with France.
The ministry was replaced by the Second Fisher ministry on 29 April 1910 following the federal election that took place on 13 April which saw the Labour Party defeat the Liberals.
The caretaker government continued to fight the war against Japan in the Far East, but Churchill's focus was on preparation for the Potsdam Conference where he and his foreign secretary Anthony Eden would meet Joseph Stalin and Harry Truman.
He was educated at Charterhouse, then served in France and Italy during World War I in the Royal Engineers, and was awarded the Italian Bronze Medal of Military Valor.
Chief minister is a term used retroactively by historians to describe servants of the English monarch who presided over the government of England, and after 1707, Great Britain, before 1721.
The protests erupted due to the lack of Indian representation on the commission, with the group composed of seven all-British Members of Parliament.
Family He was one of the four sons of the Liberal Member of Parliament Isaac Foot, his three brothers being the politician Sir Dingle Foot, the life peer Lord Foot, and the journalist and Labour Party leader Michael Foot.
Cabinet Changes January 1887 a Liberal Unionist, George Goschen, joined the ministry, succeeding Churchill as Chancellor of the Exchequer.[C.
He was elected Member of Parliament in 1945 for the Blackley division of Manchester, but lost it in 1951.
From 1969 to 1970, he was a junior minister in Harold Wilson's government, as Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Transport, under Minister of Transport Richard Marsh.
Theresa May formed the first May ministry in the United Kingdom on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
In 1919, he served on the British peace delegation that attended the signing of the Treaty of Versailles and was appointed MBE.
In the face of the Exclusion Bill, the king prorogued and then dissolved Parliament without the council's approval.
In November 1968 Chalfont travelled to the Falklands to canvass the people, and try to persuade them of the merit of becoming Argentine citizens.
October 1911 – Winston Churchill and Reginald McKenna switch offices, Churchill taking the Admiralty and McKenna the Home Office.
The Ulster Conservatives and Unionists electoral pact ended after the party failed to win any Northern Ireland seats in the 2010 general election.
List of ministers Prime Minister and Cabinet Office Departments of state Law officers Parliament Non-ministerial appointments Parliamentary Private Secretaries In July 2025, analysis by LabourList and PLMR suggested that there were 38 Parliamentary Private Secretaries (PPSs).
The Clarendon ministry was forged out of the royalist camp of Charles II, who was returned to the throne (the English Restoration) in 1660.
This is a list of members of the government of the United Kingdom in office under the leadership of Lord Liverpool from 1812 to 1827.
Formation On 9 April 1827 the Tory Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Robert Banks Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool, suffered a cerebral haemorrhage.
Alan Mak was promoted to being a parliamentary Under-Secretary of State jointly in the Department for Business and Trade and the Cabinet Office.
He was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by the Prince Regent after the assassination of Spencer Perceval.
While their support was often expressed in general terms, their intent was clear: Social and economic reform must be the first order of the new government.
After a reign of only four months, the government felt obliged to resign, whereupon the Whig leader William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne formed his second government.
He jokingly claimed to be glad to be divested of the surname "Foot", which he considered a standing invitation to wags, as he liked to illustrate by recalling a telegram his father received on his election to parliament: "Foot, congratulations on your feat!" Foot was an active freemason.
Though the government had little impact, it attracted derision through its plethora of new political names, which demonstrated the relative inexperience of the party.
He served in Harold Wilson's Labour government, first as Postmaster General, where he oversaw the opening of the Post Office Tower, and later as Minister of Technology.
Born in Elderslie, he was educated at Paisley Grammar School, St Edmund Hall, Oxford, and the universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh.
The first Rockingham ministry was a British ministry headed by Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham from 1765 to 1766 during the reign of King George III.
This is a list of the principal holders of government office during the premiership of the Earl of Shelburne between July 1782 and April 1783.
The First Leake Ministry was the third Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Premier George Leake, who had hitherto been the Leader of the Opposition.
The adhesion of the Bedfords ultimately gave them a dominant role in the ministry, which they used to pursue a more hardline policy towards the American colonies than Chatham had originally intended, or than several of the remaining were comfortable with.
He was chosen as a member of the parliamentary delegation to China just as Japanese soldiers stormed Singapore.
During the five years of this government there were two significant reshuffles (March 2013 and September 2014) as well as two departures from the Cabinet, both of which led to widespread changes in personnel and in ministerial titles and responsibilities.
January 2018 – July 2019 Changes Following a scandal about immigrant removal targets, Amber Rudd resigned from her post of Home Secretary on 29 April 2018.
History Upon Queen Anne's accession to the English throne in 1702, she appointed Lord Godolphin as Lord High Treasurer and the Duke of Marlborough as Master-General of the Ordnance (among other numerous appointments).
Emma Little-Pengelly, who was elected DUP MP for Belfast South in the 2017 election, is the daughter of Noel Little, one of the "Paris Three" arms traffickers arrested in 1989.
The First Fisher ministry succeeded the Second Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 13 November 1908 after Labour withdrew their support and Alfred Deakin was forced to resign.
It marked the first time the protectionist wing of the Conservative Party had taken office since the Corn Laws schism of 1846.
Formation Rebecca Evans retained the Finance portfolio and was appointed Cabinet Secretary for Finance, Constitution and Cabinet Office, assuming the responsibilities for Constitution from Mick Antoniw who was reappointed the Counsel General.
On 7 May 1906, the Governor, Admiral Sir Frederick Bedford, designated 6 principal executive offices of the Government under section 43(2) of the Constitution Acts Amendment Act 1899.
The two Whigs remained in power from 1717 to 1721, although in 1718, Lord Stanhope exchanged positions with Lord Sunderland to form the second Stanhope–Sunderland ministry.
The Junto established its dominance in 1694 with the appointment of Sir Charles Montagu as Chancellor of the Exchequer on 10 May.
The following ministers were then appointed to the positions, and served until the end of the Ministry.
The interim Rhodri Morgan administration was a temporary government of Wales formed on 9 February 2000 by Rhodri Morgan, following the resignation of Alun Michael as First Secretary, which was pre-empted by a vote of no-confidence by Plaid Cymru.
Gwilym Lloyd George, younger son of former Liberal leader David Lloyd George, remained as home secretary.
Home Office pathologist Francis Camps linked Adams to 163 suspicious deaths in total, which would make him a precursor to Harold Shipman.
He remains First Commissioner of Woods and Forests July 1850: Lord Truro succeeds Lord Cottenham as Lord Chancellor.
Oliver Isaac Foot (19 September 1946 – 6 February 2008), a charity worker who led Project Orbis International Hon.
He said that whilst he felt Gordon Brown was quite serious about pursuing talks, he believed former minister Ed Balls was deliberately "sabotaging" them.
Addington's ministry is most notable for negotiating the Treaty of Amiens, which marked a brief cessation of the Napoleonic Wars.
Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury formed a government in June 1885, upon his appointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Victoria, succeeding William Ewart Gladstone.
October 1891 – Arthur Balfour succeeds the late William Henry Smith as First Lord of the Treasury and Leader of the House of Commons.
History The ministry ended a period of political instability in which Great Britain had struggled in the war.
William Westwood, 1st Baron Westwood OBE (28 August 1880 – 13 September 1953), was a British trade unionist and Labour politician.
He minimum floor-space per child prescribed by the Board was increased from 10 to 12 square feet in respect of children over the age of 11, and from 9 to 10 square metres where younger children were concerned.
Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend, was appointed Secretary of State for the Northern Department by George I of Great Britain in September 1714.
June 1925 – The post of Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs was created, held by Leo Amery in tandem with Secretary of State for the Colonies.
Although the Land Commission purchased substantial quantities of land, it did not become the dominant influence in the land market that the government had hoped for.
At the 1964 general election, he was elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Gravesend in Kent, a marginal seat which was normally won by the party forming the government.
In 1762 Newcastle was forced to resign, with his followers (the "Pelhamites") dismissed by Bute in what became known as the "Massacre of the Pelhamite Innocents"; this is traditionally considered to have been the moment the ministry collapsed.
During the Gulf War, Benn visited Baghdad in order to try to persuade Saddam Hussein to release the hostages who had been captured.
Prior to the 20th century, the leader of the British government held the title of First Lord of the Treasury, and not that of Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
He was educated at West Monmouth School, and subsequently at the School of Slavonic Studies at the University of London.
James Stansfeld succeeds Goschen at the Poor Law Board (which becomes the Local Government Board later that year).
The third Rhodri Morgan government (26 May 2007 – 19 July 2007) was a caretaker Labour minority government in Wales.
She appointed Jeremy Miles as Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care, and Mark Drakeford as Cabinet Secretary for Finance, while Ken Skates lost his role as Cabinet Secretary for the Economy, while retaining his roles as Cabinet Secretary for Transport and Minister for North Wales.
It was succeeded by the First Wilson Ministry on 16 September 1910 after Moore resigned for exactly the same reason.
Their view, confirmed by Labour's National Executive Committee (NEC), was that the general election should be held in October regardless of the situation in the Far East as it was then widely thought the war against Japan might continue for another 18 months.
William Benn was elevated to the House of Lords and given the title of Viscount Stansgate in 1942, as the new wartime coalition government was short of working Labour peers in the upper house.
He served in World War II in the King's Royal Rifle Corps and on General Staff, being promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel in 1944.
Notes References British Historical Facts 1830–1900, by Chris Cook and Brendon Keith (The Macmillan Press 1975) pp.
Former Foreign Secretary Lord Granville became Secretary of State for the Colonies, while another political veteran, Lord Kimberley, resumed the post of Secretary of State for India which he had held from 1882 to 1885.
January 2001 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed as Northern Ireland Secretary and is succeeded by John Reid.
Dewar was made a member of the public accounts committee and in October 1967, he was appointed a Parliamentary Private Secretary to the President of the Board of Trade, Anthony Crosland.
Ministers not in Cabinet Lord Chamberlain – William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland == References ==
Historians Alan Sked and Chris Cook have summarized the views of some historians regarding Labour in power in 1974–1979: If Wilson's record as Prime Minister was soon felt to have been one of failure, that sense of failure was powerfully reinforced by Callaghan's term as premier.
On 17 June, Sturgeon nominated Dorothy Bain to serve as Lord Advocate and Ruth Charteris to serve as Solicitor General.
In 1912 he was elected a prize fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, the first chemist to be elected.
Dissolution On 7 March 1702, Parliament recieved word that the King was dying, and by the next day, he had been succeeded by Queen Anne.
In the politics of the United Kingdom, a National Government is a coalition of some or all of the major political parties.
Early life Ponsonby was the eldest and only surviving son of Vere Ponsonby, 9th Earl of Bessborough, and his wife, the former Roberte Poupart de Neuflize, only daughter of Baron Jean de Neuflize, a Parisian banker.
Herbert Morrison later reflected on this meeting as such: The Cabinet had been called & waited for the Prime Minister to return to No.
Dewar received nicknames such as "Donald Dour" for his stiff, matter-of-fact tone and "The Gannet" due to his large appetite.
In 1964 Foot was granted a life peerage as Baron Caradon, of St Cleer in the County of Cornwall, the title referring to Caradon Hill on Bodmin Moor, not far from Trematon Castle, which was his country home.
References The Times Guide to the House of Commons, Times Newspapers Ltd, 1987 Whitaker's Almanack 1997 External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Ernest Armstrong
He held ministerial positions, including Economic Secretary to the Treasury (1956–1957), at the Board of Trade (1955–1956 and 1957), and Health (1957–1959).
late January 1986 – Paul Channon succeeded Leon Brittan as Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
The ministry was replaced by the Cook ministry on 24 June 1913 following the federal election that took place in May which saw the Liberals defeat Labor.
The government, led by the Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey, passed the Great Reform Act in 1832, which brought about parliamentary reform, and enacted the Slavery Abolition Act 1833, bringing about the abolition of slavery in most of the British Empire.
An important part of the rebuilding effort was to get the gold mines of the Witwatersrand, the richest in history and a major cause of the war, back in production as soon as possible.
If a situation arises in which it is appropriate to use private facilities, the Minister for Health and Community Care would want to do so".
Thomas Brian McKelvie Fairfax, 13th Lord Fairfax of Cameron (14 May 1923 – 8 April 1964) was a British Army officer and Conservative politician.
The Rockingham Whigs had generally been sympathetic to the cause of the Colonists and under Rockingham the British government began the negotiations leading to the Peace of Paris that concluded the war.
SNP leader, Alex Salmond was elected First Minister on 16 May 2007; he was officially sworn in and his slate of ministerial appointments were ratified by the Scottish Parliament the following day.
The Whig government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in November 1830 and ended in November 1834 consisted of two ministries: the Grey ministry (from 1830 to July 1834) and then the first Melbourne ministry.
The next two times were for periods of 24 hours on 10 August 2001 to help deal with arms negotiations and 21 September 2001 following the Holy Cross dispute.
Pitt was a strong war leader but lacked the support in Parliament necessary to provide effective leadership.
Cabinet Changes On 19 March 2016, Iain Duncan Smith resigned from his post of Secretary of State for Work and Pensions over plans by Chancellor George Osborne to cut disability benefits.
After his retirement, Armstrong acted as political adviser to the BBC's production of the political drama House of Cards.
However, disunity within the party caused the fall of the government in the following year, and Edward Smith-Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby formed another Conservative ministry.
The ministry was replaced by the Third Deakin ministry on 2 June 1909 after the Protectionist Party and the Anti-Socialist Party merged into the Liberal Party "fusion" and withdrew their support in order to form what became the first majority government in federal Australian history.
Soon afterward, in his resignation speech in the House of Commons, he publicly denounced Thatcher, having once been one of her closest allies, personally and for her hostility towards the programmes of the European Economic Community.
The government also came under strain when, from the opposition, Pitt introduced a proposal for electoral reform to tackle bribery and rotten boroughs.
On 3 July of the same year, he was created a life peer as Baron Darling of Hillsborough, of Crewe in Cheshire.
See also Johnson cabinets, of Boris Johnson as Mayor of London Second Johnson ministry Notes == References ==
Notes Lord John Russell served as Leader of the House of Commons from December 1852 to February 1855.
Phillips participated in an oral history interview in 1992, which is held in the National Life Story's: Fawcett Collection at the Women's Library, London School of Economics (LSE).
Fate Canning, who was in poor health at the time of his appointment, died in office on 8 August 1827, and the Leader of the House of Lords Frederick Robinson, 1st Viscount Goderich succeeded him as prime minister.
Ahead of the 2017 general election, it was suggested that a new coalition between the parties could be proposed, although this was later ruled out by Liberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron.
The Second Executive (8 May 2007 – 16 May 2011) is as under the terms of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 a power sharing coalition.
They combined their forces in the House of Commons to throw out Shelburne's ministry and then form a government of their own.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the Barton ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the First Deakin ministry and the Reid government.
The minority government was seen as unworkable, and another general election was called for October; in which Labour won a narrow majority of three seats.
With the few changes being that she appointed former First Minister Mark Drakeford as her successor to her former role as Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care, a role he himself held between 2013 and 2016, and designated Elisabeth Jones as Counsel General-designate.
Peel was in Sardinia at the time, so the Duke of Wellington took control of the government in a caretaker capacity until Peel returned and was able to form his government on 10 December.
Following the vote to leave at the EU referendum on the morning of 24 June, Cameron said that he would resign as prime minister after a new Leader of the Conservative Party was chosen after the party conference in the autumn.
He was appointed to be PPS to the President of Eden's board for two years before moving to the Ministry of Agriculture.
August 1877: George Ward Hunt dies and is succeeded as First Lord of the Admiralty by William Henry Smith.
Ministry See also 1734 British general election 1741 British general election 1742 vote of no confidence in the Walpole ministry Notes References == Further reading ==
The Cabinet Robert Walpole served as both First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer between 1715 and 1717.
In Parliament he served as Parliamentary Private Secretary to Tom Johnston in 1941, and Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State in the Ministry of Supply from 1945 to 1947.
348), Leake and his supporters set about "the best organised campaigning the state had ever witnessed" for the by-elections, and three of the ministers—Frank Wilson, Matthew Moss and Frederick Moorhead were defeated.
Keith, British Historical Facts 1830–1900 External links "Lord Derby looses bigotry on the streets".
Benjamin Disraeli was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom for a second time by Queen Victoria after William Ewart Gladstone's government was defeated in the 1874 general election.
Bessborough succeeded to his father's two earldoms in 1956 and took his seat on the Conservative benches in the House of Lords.
The ministers for independence and culture were abolished, with their incumbents Jamie Hepburn and Kaukab Stewart moved to other positions.
He also took the initiative in attempting numerous mediation schemes, typically involving Soviet intervention, none of which gained traction.
May 2007 – The Home Office loses responsibility for criminal justice, prisons & probation and legal affairs which merges into the Department for Constitutional Affairs with Falconer becoming Secretary of State for Justice.
January 1940 – Oliver Stanley becomes Secretary of State for War and a member of the War Cabinet in succession to Leslie Hore-Belisha (resigned) (see above) and is succeeded as President of the Board of Trade by Andrew Duncan.
The second Peel ministry was formed by Sir Robert Peel in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1841.
She was chairman of the National Gardens Scheme from 1951 to 1979, and opened the gardens at Chilworth for fundraising events for Marie Curie Cancer Care and other medical charities.
Following the 6 May 2016 elections to the fifth Northern Ireland Assembly, the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
Jeremy Miles and Julie James returned to cabinet following their resignations under Gething, and as health cabinet secretary and Counsel General-designate respectively, with the latter replacing Jones.
Since the onset of devolution in Wales in 1999, each Welsh Government administration has been led by the Labour Party.
Background and education Dundee was the elder son of Colonel Henry Scrymgeour-Wedderburn, de jure 10th Earl of Dundee, and Edith, daughter of John Moffat.
This also effectively made her First Minister-designate, given the SNP's outright majority in the Scottish Parliament.
The first was for a period of 3 months from 11 February 2000 – 30 May 2000 because of no arms decommissioning.
Major Sir George Frederick Davies, CVO (19 April 1875 – 21 June 1950) was a British Conservative Party politician.
Johnson had resigned as leader of the Conservative Party the previous day after Truss was elected as his successor.
The Conservatives would withdraw their no confidence motion in Yousaf, following the announcement of his resignation, whilst the Labour Party would push their no confidence motion in the government to a vote - it being defeated by 70 votes to 58.
History After the fall of Lord John Russell's Whig government in early 1852, the Conservative leader Lord Derby formed a government.
During its two years, the ministry confronted growing discontent in Britain's American colonies which were to lead to the American War of Independence breaking out in 1775.
Henry McLeish formed the McLeish government on 27 October 2000 following his appointment as the First Minister of Scotland.
Albert James Murray, Baron Murray of Gravesend (9 January 1930 – 10 February 1980) was a British Labour Party politician.
This is a list of members of the Tory government of the United Kingdom in office under the leadership of William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland from 1807 to 1809.
Attribution: This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
King George III despised the government, and Fox in particular, but found that no other ministry could be formed at this stage despite several offers to William Pitt the Younger.
The council soon split along lines of opposition and support to the continuation of the war in France.
History After the collapse of Lord Palmerston's first government, the Conservative leader Lord Derby again formed a minority government, with Benjamin Disraeli as Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Cabinet Changes July 1998 – 1999 British cabinet reshuffle October 1998 – Alun Michael becomes Welsh Secretary.
A Government of Scotland bill was put forward that provided for Scottish Home Rule with its main proposal being the creation of a single-house assembly to deal with Scottish matters and with powers to raise taxes.
He was subsequently a minister in Winston Churchill's wartime government as a Parliamentary Under Secretary of State, for India and Burma (1940–1943) and for the Colonies (1943–1945).
Deputy Secretaries Deputy Secretaries prior to the enactment of the Government of Wales Act 2006 were not officially part of the Government, were not paid and received limited official support.
Most of these were portfolios in the "outer cabinet" and outside the war cabinet, although some were temporarily included in the war cabinet, as indicated by bold highlighting of the ministers concerned.
Additionally, as Labor contained no lawyers within its ranks, the role of Attorney-General as chief law officer of the State lapsed, and Robert Hastie was named Minister for Justice instead.
Priti Patel became the new Minister of State for Employment and Robert Halfon became a Minister without Portfolio.
Personal life In 1951, Lord Fairfax of Cameron married Sonia Helen Gunston, younger daughter of Cecil Bernard Gunston, MC, and his wife Lady Doris Hamilton-Temple-Blackwood.
Imprisoned as a conscientious objector during World War I, Woodburn worked in engineering and ironfounding administration, and was a lecturer and national secretary of the Scottish Labour College.
Phillips championed consumer issues and in 1965 founded the Housewives Trust to help shoppers obtain better value for money.
Though Saunders was replaced by the competent Admiral Sir Edward Hawke, most of the other positions were given to former supporters of the royal favourite Lord Bute, increasing the unpopularity of the ministry and strengthening the opposition.
References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Jack Diamond
He helped Margaret Thatcher introduce the Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960, similar to a bill that he had proposed years earlier, in her maiden speech.
Richard Simpson resigned from his post as Deputy Justice Minister on 26 November 2002, and was replaced by Hugh Henry.
Changes July 1870: On the death of Lord Clarendon, Lord Granville succeeds him as Foreign Secretary.
The Minister for Parliamentary Business is the only Scottish Government junior minister who regularly attends meetings of the Scottish cabinet.
20th century Conservatives and Liberals joined together in all-party governments during both World Wars as well as during the "Coupon" coalition of 1918–1922 and the first two years of National Government in 1931–1933.
There was particular criticism that the additional spending in Northern Ireland will not lead to matched additional funding in other parts of the country through the Barnett formula.
The response of opinion in the country, evidenced by petitions, resolutions of borough corporations and the actions of the London mobs, showed strong opposition to the coalition and support for Pitt.
Gordon Brown formed the Brown ministry after being invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government following the resignation of the previous Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Tony Blair, on 27 June 2007.
The Liberal Government of New Zealand was the first responsible government in New Zealand politics organised along party lines.
In talks at Downing Street with Viscount Halifax and Churchill, he indicated that he was quite ready to resign if that was necessary for Labour to enter such a government.
That same year, thirteen Area Training Organisations were set up in England and one in Wales to coordinate teacher training.
October 1927 – Lord Cushendun succeeded Lord Cecil of Chelwood as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster March 1928 – Lord Hailsham (former Sir D.
In 1967, his widow Lady Fairfax of Cameron was appointed Temporary Lady of the Bedchamber to Queen Elizabeth II.
During her premiership, Thatcher moved to liberalise the British economy through deregulation, privatisation, and the promotion of entrepreneurialism.
His ministry was defeated in the 1874 election, whereupon Disraeli formed a ministry and Gladstone retired as Leader of the Liberal Party.
Hutton was in turn replaced as Work Secretary by Peter Hain, who continued as Wales Secretary but not as Northern Ireland Secretary, a post that went to Shaun Woodward, previously Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State.
Because of Pitt's former prominence before his title, it is sometimes referred to as the Pitt ministry.
They were fiercely pressed by the Whig opposition, who used the rallying cry of No Peace Without Spain.
Roy Jenkins, leader of the SDP, worked in conjunction with Liberal leader David Steel with the goal of forming a coalition government at the next general election.
Honours and arms Foot was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1939 New Year Honours and elevated Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG) in the 1946 Birthday Honours.
The Conservative government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1866 and ended in 1868 was led by Edward Smith-Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby in the House of Lords and Benjamin Disraeli in the House of Commons.
The seconds then jointly intervened and insisted the duel end, having decided that sufficient satisfaction had been given and that both parties had retained their honor.
It succeeded the Daglish Ministry on 25 August 1905 after the previous Labor minority administration fell on a vote of no confidence.
On 4 January 1687 James II dismissed Rochester and his brother the Earl of Clarendon, replacing both with Catholic appointees, Lord Belasyse (aged 72) and Lord Arundell (aged 79).
During the 1970s Benn publicly defended Marxism, saying: The Communist Manifesto, and many other works of Marxist philosophy, have always profoundly influenced the British labour movement and the British Labour Party, and have strengthened our understanding and enriched our thinking.
Frederick North, Lord North was appointed to lead the government of the Kingdom of Great Britain by King George III from 1770 to 1782.
It was succeeded by the Second Portland ministry, headed by William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland.
The Conservative government under Benjamin Disraeli had been defeated at the 1868 general election, so in December 1868 the victorious William Ewart Gladstone formed his first government.
History 2019 to 2020 The Conservative minority first Johnson ministry could not implement its legislative programme due to a political impasse over Brexit.
Simon's inability to choose an option reflected his background as a lawyer where he would lay out all the possible options for his client, who would then choose which option to pursue.
With the support of the Greens, Salmond was elected by the Scottish Parliament as First Minister on 16 May 2007, and was sworn in the following day after receiving the Royal Warrant from the Queen and taking the official oath of allegiance before judges at the Court of Session.
On 31 July 1952, the Scrymgeour family's claim to title of Dudhope and Scrymgeour in the Scottish peerage was accepted by the Lords Committee for Privileges; and again on 18 May 1953 his claim to the earldom of Dundee and Lord Innerkeithing was affirmed.
Just over a year later, the Government lost support on the floor of the house and fell on a vote of no confidence.
During his tenure as Permanent Representative, he was sworn of the Privy Council in the 1968 New Year Honours.
Jack McConnell was re-appointed as First Minister on 20 May 2003 and headed another Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition government.
The government of Great Britain was under the joint leadership of William Pitt the Elder (in the House of Commons) and William Cavendish, 4th Duke of Devonshire (in the House of Lords), between November 1756 and April 1757—when Pitt was dismissed by George II of Great Britain.
On 3 March 1894, Gladstone resigned over the rejection of his Home Rule Bill and Archibald Primrose, 5th Earl of Rosebery succeeded him.
The second May ministry was formed on 11 June 2017 after Theresa May returned to office following the June 2017 snap general election.
In 1945, he was elected a Scottish representative peer, and served as Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Lord President of the Council (Lord Woolton and Lord Salisbury respectively) from 1951 to 1953 and to the Minister of Materials (Lord Woolton) between 1953 and 1954.
Cabinet February 1886 to August 1886 Changes April 1886: James Stansfeld succeeds Joseph Chamberlain at the Local Government Board.
The citation reads as follows: For gallantry and relentless determination during a period of eighteen months in command of his company in jungle operations.
This is a list of the principal holders of government office during the second premiership of the Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham for four months in 1782.
The problem was that a national leader was expected to behave differently to a party leader during an election and Churchill failed to strike the right balance.
July 1801 – The William Cavendish-Bentinck, Duke of Portland succeeds John Pitt, Earl of Chatham as Lord President (Chatham remains Master of the Ordnance).
The third Jones government was a Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition government formed after the 2016 general election in Wales.
The Executive of the 1st Northern Ireland Assembly (1 July 1998 – 14 October 2002) was, under the terms of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, a power-sharing coalition.
These "Portland Whigs" (named after their nominal leader, William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland, but in reality led by Charles James Fox) allied in opposition with Lord North and brought down the Shelburne ministry in 1783.
This was the first devolved government of Wales to use the term "Welsh Assembly Government" rather than "Assembly Administration" to describe itself.
Other junior ministries, 10 May 1940 – 23 May 1945 This table lists the junior offices (often ministerial level 3) whose titles signify an assistant, deputy or under-secretary function.
Left-wing Labour activist, John McAllion, announced his candidacy, however, he only received one nominee from Elaine Smith.
August 1839 – September 1841 Notes Viscount Duncannon served concurrently as Lord Privy Seal and First Commissioner of Woods and Forests between August 1839 and January 1840.
Alun Arthur Gwynne Jones, Baron Chalfont, (5 December 1919 – 10 January 2020) was a British Army officer, politician and historian.
History In 1756, King George II was reluctantly compelled to accept a ministry dominated by William Pitt as Secretary of State.
He was raised to the peerage as Baron Salter, of Kidlington in the County of Oxford, on 16 October 1953.
A month into his term, he was faced with the 2007 Glasgow Airport attack, Scotland's worst terrorist attack since the Lockerbie bombing in 1988.
Intensive talks resumed in December 2019 following the 2019 UK General Election with a new deadline of 13 January 2020 for fresh assembly elections set by Secretary of State Julian Smith.
Heald's daughter from his first marriage, Susan was one of the secretaries who typed the English versions of the German Instrument of Surrender at the conclusion of the Second World War.
The Cabinet was made up of sixteen Conservatives and five Liberal Democrats, with eight other Conservatives and one other Liberal Democrat attending cabinet but not members.
Lord and Lady Dundee had one child together: Alexander Henry Scrymgeour of Dundee, later 12th Earl of Dundee (born 5 June 1949).
It succeeded the First Leake Ministry on 21 November 1901, and was followed by the Second Leake Ministry on 23 December 1901.
1st Executive of Northern Ireland References See also List of Northern Ireland Executives Members of the Northern Ireland Assembly elected in 2007
From 1754 to 1756, Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle headed the government of Great Britain.
He represented Gloucester until his surprise defeat in 1970 by the Conservative candidate, Sally Oppenheim.
January 1974 – The Lord Carrington is appointed to the new position of Secretary of State for Energy; Ian Gilmour succeeds him as Secretary for Defence.
He had a strong interest in economics, education, European unity, international relations, modern languages and Scottish history.
The DUP refused to assent to the election of a Speaker on 13 May in further protest to the Northern Ireland Protocol, so the Assembly could not continue to other business, including the appointment of a fresh Executive.
Despite suffering a stroke in 1953, Churchill remained in office until April 1955, when he resigned at the age of eighty.
The Carteret ministry was the Whig government of Great Britain that held office from 1742 to 1744, following the defeat of the Walpole ministry by a margin of one vote.
Lord Londonderry succeeded Peel as First Commissioner of Public Works List of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Developments quickly occurred during the autumn of 2000 culminating in Tom Middlehurst resigning as Secretary for post-16 education on 9 October claiming he could not “contemplate sitting down at the Cabinet table with the Liberal Democrats”.
Sturgeon was nominated by a vote of the 5th Scottish Parliament for appointment to the post of first minister on 17 May 2016.
The unstable nature of the then minority government was of concern and was always viewed as temporary and Labour had mooted looking for a coalition partner following their persevered poor showing in the 1999 election.
Carwyn Jones was re-elected First Minister in May 2011 and continued to serve up to and beyond the 2016 election.
However, this the Whigs felt disinclined to give, joining with the Irish radicals to defeat the Conservatives at every turn.
With the loss of the alliance with Burgundy, Bedford became convinced that peace was the only solution, but at a conference arranged in Arras in 1435, the English delegation refused to give up their claim to the French throne.
Committee for Foreign Affairs The Privy Council Committee for Foreign Affairs served as the ministry; other significant statesmen not in the committee are listed in the next section.
However, he was later demoted to Lord Lieutenant of Ireland when he was outmanoeuvred by his rival Whigs, who formed the first Stanhope-Sunderland ministry.
Maree Todd was made Minister for Drugs & Alcohol Policy and Sport, filling the post which had been left vacant following the death of Christina McKelvie in March 2025.
He was accused of hypocrisy even though his position was not actually very different from that of Lloyd George.
In 1969, a form of mortgage interest tax relief entitled MIRAS was established to help stimulate home ownership.
It was in government from 29 December 1890 to 14 February 1901, when it was succeeded by the Throssell Ministry following the 1901 elections.
On 29 April, Yousaf announced his intention to resign as First Minister following the election of a new leader of the SNP.
The noted Scottish lawyer Sir David Maxwell Fyfe, who had gained fame as a prosecutor at the Nuremberg Trials, became Home Secretary.
Melbourne lost a second vote of confidence shortly after the election in August, leading to his resignation.
All job titles and dates are taken from the History of The National Assembly section of their website Aftermath Between February and October 2000 Rhodri Morgan's Labour Party had 28 of the Assembly's 60 seats.
Between 1970 and 1974 he held the title of Lord Advocate having briefly been Solicitor General for Scotland from April to October 1964.
The First Deakin ministry succeeded the Barton ministry, which dissolved on 24 September 1903 following Sir Edmund Barton's retirement from Parliament to enter the inaugural High Court.
Chalfont was a former chairman of the Radio Authority which regulated commercial radio in the UK until its role was absorbed by Ofcom.
February 1868 – December 1868 Changes September 1868: The Earl of Mayo leaves the cabinet to become Viceroy of India.
However, he refused to support the calling of a general election, and persuaded his supporters to leave the government and go into opposition.
William Shepherd Morrison swaps the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for the Postmaster General with George Tryon and is succeeded as Minister of Food by Lord Woolton.
As Chancellor, he tried to keep arms spending as low as possible in the belief that a strong economy was the "fourth arm of defence".
In September 2001, the Scottish Executive issued guidance to NHS Scotland that outlined their actions and views on how the NHS in Scotland "must take to address the health needs of homeless people, including those who have mental health problems".
The first Drakeford government was a Labour-led government formed after the resignation of Carwyn Jones as First Minister of Wales on 12 December 2018, and the subsequent appointment of Mark Drakeford in his place following a leadership contest.
He also bore the Sword of State at the coronation of George VI in 1937 and was Lord Lieutenant of the North Riding of Yorkshire between 1945 and 1951.
A coalition of the Conservative and Liberal Unionist parties took power in the United Kingdom shortly before the 1895 general election.
Billy Hughes, who died in 1952, was the last surviving member of the First Fisher ministry; Hughes was also the last surviving member of the Watson ministry, Third Fisher ministry, Second Hughes ministry and Third Hughes ministry.
Membership and rise Following the end of Clarendon Ministry in 1667, in a cloud of accusations of incompetence and corruption, the conduct of the government of Charles II fell to a loose coalition of energetic young ministers, the "Cabal".
Following the February 1974 general election, which resulted in a hung parliament, Conservative prime minister Edward Heath attempted to negotiate a coalition with Liberal leader Jeremy Thorpe.
At the general election in October 1931, when Labour split over Ramsay MacDonald's formation of a National Government, he lost the seat to the Conservative Party candidate Albert George Hubert Fuller.
He was initially concerned about Scotland's defence strategy and feared the country's major cities, such as Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen, would be targets based on their economic strength and significance to the Scottish, UK and European economies.
The Adoption of Children Act 1895 introduced a process whereby any person in New Zealand could place an adoption order.
Her first cabinet was appointed to serve on an interim basis, with most members of her government retaining the same posts they had in the previous Gething government.
However, the Governor of Western Australia, Sir William Robinson GCMG, used the courtesy title of Premier to refer to the leader of the Government in public statements, as did the media, and its use was in keeping with that prevalent in other British crown colonies.
The portfolio of Minister for Employment and Investment was created, with Tom Arthur appointed to the role.
All the Common Market countries except the UK have been occupied by Germany, and they have this mixed feeling of hatred and subservience towards the Germans".
It had fallen below 2,500,000 within two years of the recession's end, and by the end of 1996 it was below the 2,000,000 mark.
Although perceived as a secretive and unsavoury junta, they rarely formed a united front, and their internal quarrels often spilled over into the public arena.
Both the Whigs and Tories proved strong during this period, with the 1701 elections returning a very balanced House of Commons.
Guide to the list "Ministry" refers collectively to all the ministers of a government, including Cabinet members and junior ministers alike.
1841 votes of no confidence The 1841 votes of no confidence against the government of Viscount Melbourne were votes of no confidence in the government of William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne which occurred on 7 June 1841.
Upon his death at 96, he was survived by his children and by his third wife, Barbara Kagan, whom he had married in 1976.
He was vice-chairman of the Inns of Court Conservative and Unionist Society and was made Queen's Counsel in 1955.
George Darling, Baron Darling of Hillsborough, PC (20 July 1905 – 18 October 1985) was a politician in the United Kingdom.
However, this proved impossible, with all the other parties discussing a possible anti-Labour coalition.
Formation The Liberal Party under the leadership of William Gladstone came to power in the United Kingdom in February 1886 after they, with the support of the Irish Nationalists, defeated the Conservative government of Lord Salisbury.
Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities
When this led to an attempt to replace the conciliatory Southern Secretary, Lord Shelburne, Chatham finally roused himself enough to resign from his position as Lord Privy Seal, leaving Grafton as the nominal as well as real head of a ministry in which the Bedford faction was now stronger than ever.
He was Governor of Bengal between 1917 and 1922 and Secretary of State for India between 1935 and 1940.
Cabinets The Earl Grey's Cabinet, November 1830 – July 1834 Viscount Melbourne's Cabinet, July 1834 – November 1834 List of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
He never held ministerial office again but served for many years as a Deputy Speaker in the House of Lords.
He pinned his hopes of election success on a six-week campaign exposing New Labour's policies to scrutiny, as well as pointing towards a booming economy and falling unemployment.
In 1933, he became Solicitor General, receiving the customary knighthood, followed three years later by a promotion to Attorney General.
This resulted in a government crisis, where Yousaf faced the threat of a vote of no confidence now that the SNP was leading a minority government.
Among his appointments was the former Welsh Liberal Democrat leader Kirsty Williams, who became Minister for Education.
An online petition against the Conservative–DUP agreement, which also calls for Theresa May's resignation, surpassed 640,000 signatures in the days following the election.
Eden then shortly asked Queen Elizabeth II to dissolve Parliament and call a general election for 26 May.
It was formed during the 9th Parliament, after Premier James Dunsmuir resigned and named Prior as his successor.
29), local authorities had a duty "to provide emergency temporary accommodation for families which become homeless through no fault of their own".
The most prominent point in the policy of appeasement came in September 1938, when the Munich Agreement was negotiated.
Cabinet appointments McConnell announced his second government on 20 May 2003 and promised to "restore public confidence in devolution" with a pledge to tackle issues including youth crime and anti-social behaviour within communities.
"Political Change in Britain, August 1914 to December 1916: Lloyd George Replaces Asquith: The Issues Underlying the Drama." Historical Journal 31.03 (1988): 609–627.
In the 1957 Birthday Honours, he was elevated a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George (GCMG).
Cabinet Ministers (the coalition replaced the title of Secretary with Minister) were then appointed on 16 October and Deputies on 17 October.
The Watson ministry succeeded the First Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 27 April 1904 after Labour withdrew their support and Alfred Deakin was forced to resign.
In December 1711 the government controversially dismissed John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough, a notional Tory but long supported by the Whigs, as Captain General and replaced him with the staunchly Tory Irish general James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormond.
Cabinet Junior Ministers Changes A significant reshuffle occurred on 8 March 2013, in which Mark Drakeford entered the cabinet as Health Minister.
Zetland, who was known to favour good relations between the UK and Germany, was associated with the Anglo-German Fellowship during the late 1930s.
However, King William IV dismissed Grey's successor William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne in 1834 and asked Sir Robert Peel to form a government.
Lady Heald trained at the Queen's Nursing Institute prior to her marriage and from 1950 became vice-president of the Royal College of Nursing.
The second Stanhope–Sunderland ministry (1718–1721) was a continuation of the British Whig government headed by Charles Spencer, 3rd Earl of Sunderland and James Stanhope, 1st Earl Stanhope.
She was the first Roman Catholic life peeress and was the first female government whip in the House of Lords.
John Major formed the first Major ministry upon the resignation of Margaret Thatcher in November 1990, after being invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
The James Ministry was the sixth Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Premier Walter James.
Cabinet Below are Bath's appointments before he abandoned the attempt to form a ministry; it does not appear that either Carlisle or Winchilsea actually received the seals of office from the King.
In September 1962, Derwent was appointed Minister of State for Trade in the Conservative government of Harold Macmillan, and when Alec Douglas-Home became Prime Minister in October 1963 he was promoted to Minister of State for Home Affairs.
February 1888 – Sir Michael Hicks Beach succeeds Lord Stanley of Preston as President of the Board of Trade.
January 1990 – Norman Fowler resigns as Secretary of State for Employment and is succeeded by Michael Howard.
Cabinet Ministers not in Cabinet Thomas Robinson, 2nd Baron Grantham – First Lord of Trade Isaac Barré – Treasurer of the Navy Thomas Townshend – Secretary at War Edmund Burke – Paymaster of the Forces William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland – Lord Lieutenant of Ireland == References ==
Having won the largest number of seats in the general election (47 of 129) the SNP sought to form a coalition with the Scottish Liberal Democrats.
The Bath–Granville ministry, better known as the "short-lived" ministry, was a ministry of Patriot Whigs that existed briefly in February 1746.
They would lead this coalition of Tories and Whigs until 1708, one year after the Act of Union formed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Blair's government responded by introducing a range of anti-terror legislation, including the passing of the contentious Identity Cards Act 2006 legislation (repealed in 2011).
Tessa Jowell lost her place at the table when James Purnell became Culture Secretary but was given the right to attend Cabinet as the Olympics Minister and also became Paymaster General.
She was replaced as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions by Thérèse Coffey on 8 September 2019, and as Minister for Women and Equalities by Liz Truss on 10 September 2019.
He returned to the House of Commons in a 1957 by-election for Gloucester, caused by the death of its Labour MP, Moss Turner-Samuels.
The McLeish government subsequently formed on 27 October 2000 and was headed by first minister Henry McLeish, before being dissolved on 8 November 2001 following McLeish's resignation as first minister.
Lord Falconer of Thoroton assumes the new position of Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs, also becoming Lord Chancellor.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the First Deakin ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the Barton government and the Reid government.
Heath's government initially enjoyed a strong economy and relatively low unemployment, and on 1 January 1973 the United Kingdom became a member state of the European Communities, principally the European Economic Community.
In 2013, original Alliance MP and Minister for Housing and the Elderly, Charles Bruzon, died prematurely after only serving two years in government.
He is succeeded at the Board of Trade by William Huskisson 1823 – Lord Maryborough, the Master of the Mint, leaves the Cabinet.
It is perhaps in more common use in those countries, which both have official catalogues of their respective ministries, whereas Britain has no such catalogue.
These had taken power in 1717 to form the first Stanhope–Sunderland ministry, and in 1718 they interchanged positions, with Sunderland becoming First Lord of the Treasury.
In the wake of the 2000 SQA exam controversy, he removed Sam Galbraith as education minister, replacing him with his leadership opponent McConnell.
Joseph Henderson, 1st Baron Henderson of Ardwick (1884 – 26 February 1950) was a Labour Party politician in the United Kingdom.
After the War, he served as Colonial Secretary of Jamaica, 1945–47, Chief Secretary for Nigeria, 1947–50 and was appointed to be the Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief of Jamaica in 1951, a post he held until 1957.
The recession which began in the autumn of 1990 deepened during 1991, with unemployment standing at nearly 2.5 million by December 1991, compared to 1.6 million just 18 months earlier.
He was educated at Winchester and Balliol College, Oxford, where he was president of the Oxford Union in October 1924.
Johnson inherited a minority government, supported by a confidence and supply agreement with the Democratic Unionist Party of Northern Ireland.
The Chief of Staff to the First Minister may also attend cabinet meetings at the request of the first minister.
Similarly the all-party government of Winston Churchill in the Second World War was generally referred to as the National Government at the time.
The Prime Minister, Tony Blair, who turned 44 years old days after leading Labour to victory, was the youngest prime minister of the twentieth century.
With the appointment of Kwasi Kwarteng as Chancellor of the Exchequer, James Cleverly as Foreign Secretary, and Suella Braverman as Home Secretary, for the first time in British political history, no white men held positions in the Great Offices of State.
It succeeded the Forrest Ministry on 15 February 1901 after Sir John Forrest's move from state to federal politics, and was led by Forrest's choice of successor, George Throssell.
Evelyn Nigel Chetwode Birch, Baron Rhyl (18 November 1906 – 8 March 1981) was a British Conservative politician.
Following the repercussions of the Alberta and Great Waterways Railway scandal, Rutherford resigned as Premier of Alberta on May 26, 1910, and was replaced by Arthur Sifton and the Sifton Ministry.
The Forrest Ministry was the first government ministry in Western Australia, after the inauguration of responsible government.
As a result, William Ewart Gladstone's Liberal Party formed a minority government that relied upon Irish Nationalist support.
Other notable figures in the government were: John Profumo, Bill Deedes, David Ormsby-Gore and Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 5th Marquess of Salisbury.
On 25 August 1905, the Governor, Admiral Sir Frederick Bedford, designated 6 principal executive offices of the Government under section 43(2) of the Constitution Acts Amendment Act 1899.
As a stopgap, Parliament elected Thomas Parker, 1st Earl of Macclesfield Regent, or "acting king" until the new monarch arrived to take his crown.
Chief ministers were usually one of the great officers of state, but it was not unusual for there to be no chief minister.
Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury formed his second ministry, in an alliance with the Liberal Unionist Party, following the 1886 general election and his reappointment as the British prime minister by Queen Victoria.
The final suspension came on 14 October 2002 after the Stormontgate controversy surrounding an alleged Provisional Irish Republican Army spy ring based in Stormont.
As a National Government it was a coalition of members of the Conservative Party, Liberal Nationals and National Labour, as well as a number of individuals who belonged to no political party.
His speculation was highly criticised and doubted by Mariano Rajoy, Prime Minister of Spain, who said there would be "no automatic welcome for an independent Scotland", ultimately blocking proposals announced by Salmond.
Fate The change of leader from Margaret Thatcher to John Major saw a revival in Tory support, with the double-digit lead in the opinion polls for the Labour Party being replaced by a narrow Conservative one by the turn of 1991.
Inflation had recently topped twenty per cent, and unemployment was in excess of 1.5 million for the first time since the 1930s.
He was national supervisor of the Ship Constructors' and Shipwrights' Association (now part of GMB Union) from 1913 to 1929 and its general secretary from 1929 to 1945 as well as chief industrial adviser from 1942 to 1945.
It was led by the two Pelham brothers in Parliament, Prime Minister Henry Pelham in the House of Commons and Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords.
Newly appointed cabinet secretaries who were not part of the previous government were appointed as cabinet secretary designates, pending approval by members of the Scottish Parliament and receiving approval by the incumbent monarch.
Author Nancy Kilpatrick, after reading Death Moon in preparation for writing the following Jason X novel, called it "pretty damned weird." Nat Brehmer of Bloody Disgusting opined that author Alex S.
They then moved to their own women-only island, where, in the absence of male oppression, they grew progressively stronger and lived a longer life.
Stargate SG-1 was also nominated for two VES Awards in 2003 and 2005 and for two Hugo Awards in 2005 and 2007.
The Nestene Consciousness did not appear on-screen again until 2005's "Rose", the first episode of the series' revival.
He ended up becoming an outlaw, mentored as a graffiti artist by the insane "tagger" Kroll; he left messages and occasionally took out police officers to eventually provoke an uprising.
See also List of Sonic the Hedgehog characters Notes References External links Doctor Eggman at Sonic-City (archived) Doctor Eggman at Sonic Channel (in Japanese)
Heroes of the City (Swedish: Stadens Hjältar) is a Swedish computer-animated television series for preschool children, with stories about friendship, sharing and caring.
Plot The New American Republic commandeers a space freighter to track down Jason Voorhees, an undead cyborg last sighted on a research station orbiting Planet #666.
Master Hidar Fen Ajidica heads Project Amal, an early attempt by the Bene Tleilax to create synthetic melange in order to eliminate dependence upon the planet Arrakis, intending an eventual Tleilaxu takeover of the universe, Ajidica sends "improved" Face Dancers off to unexplored systems.
These classes can be further customized with a number of descriptors (such as "Tough" or "Mystical") and foci, which allow the character to excel in a certain role or combat style.
A crowd funding platform, on the other hand, would allow the developers to present their vision directly to potential buyers and determine its viability early on, making it a better choice for a mid-sized or smaller developer studio, like inXile.
There have been some claims that Frontier Enterprises produced an English dub Mazinger Z at some point in the 1970s, stating it was one of the serial works that his company Frontier Enterprises had been in charge of translating but failed to sell to a network and thus never aired or was released.
Robotnik also served as the main antagonist of the 1999 series Sonic Underground, in which he was voiced by Garry Chalk.
13–14, ISBN 9780842028592{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Pettigrew, Neil (1999), The Stop-motion Filmography –A Critical Guide to 297 Features Using Puppet Animation, McFarland, pp.
The one recruited by Iron Man presented the idea that, to try something new and break his pattern, Ultron should try to help the heroes and humanity.
Concept The stasis field concept is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field.
From salvaged internal metal identification plates, two varieties are identified: I-V, a wounded soldier, and III-V, David.
Background No well-controlled scientific studies have ever been published suggesting the possibility of pheromones causing rapid behavioral changes in humans.
In July 2019, Franky Zapata flew the newer Flyboard Air "jet-powered personal aerial vehicle", referred to as the EZ-Fly, during Bastille Day celebrations in France.
The two books show at least one solution to the Fermi paradox, with electromagnetically noisy civilizations being snuffed out by the arrival of self-replicating machines designed to destroy any potential threat to their (possibly long-dead) creators.
Captain Miklo Braca (David Franklin) – Captain Miklo Braca usually serves as a subordinate to most of the series' villains, acting as second-in-command for Crais, Scorpius, and Grayza at various times.
Marsden, Ilya Prigogine (Nobel Prize in Chemistry, 1977), Robert Wald, John Archibald Wheeler, Maurice Allais (Nobel Prize in Economics, 1988), and Frank Wilczek (Nobel Prize in Physics, 2004).
In the sequel, Ghost in the Shell 2: Man/Machine Interface, a person known as Motoko Aramaki appears.
He is sent to infiltrate the Canelli crime family by using the cover identity "Angelo Mortalli." While living as Mortalli, Garrison begins a romantic relationship with Gina DeCarlo.
Boilerplate is featured on the cover of Canadian indie pop band Stars's 2008 EP Sad Robots, as well as on merchandise for their 2008–9 tour.
The plot has been called “fast-paced and eventful” and “the kind of book that felt much shorter than the 500-odd pages in spans” but also frustrating as “the love story holds very few surprises" being based on the Hans Christian Andersen story.
Now, Tiphares is mainly a source of living human brains that are integrated into Ketheres' quantum computing network known as Melchizedek.
Cait Sith to her had a "memorable, distinctive and comical look, something that was needed to offset the darker, rather po-faced appearance of the rest of the cast", and his humorous appearance helped offset how the rest of the party was shown as "brooding and containing their androgynous rage".
Only in the late 20th century did advances in biology reveal that vampires were once humans who had been infected with the V-virus.
Two multi-purpose rooms were frequently redecorated into the infirmary, Daniel's lab, the cafeteria or the gym.
He is the first person whose body was cryopreserved after legal death, and remains preserved at the Alcor Life Extension Foundation.
radio waves), so signals sent from a great distance can be expected to reach their destination at a predictable time and with little relative degradation (barring any random subspace interference or spatial anomalies).
Hadden faked his death, secretly launching himself into space using cryogenics, but this remains unknown to the characters.
At the first checkpoint, Hamilton orders Annie, who is revealed to be her spy, to kill Frankenstein.
He searches her lodgings, finding busts carved of him and of Number Two, and smashes a lifelike effigy representing the sleeping Professor.
The spin-off manga Crazy Diamond's Demonic Heartbreak reveals that Kakyoin was born in Morioh and ended up under Dio's control during his family's vacation to Egypt when the villain uses his younger cousin as a hostage.
As other Geldarians arrive on Earth to investigate the death of their comrade and find the missing Tech Jacket, they initially suspect Zack of foul play, believing he stole the Tech Jacket.
Contrary to Next Generation, GamePro concluded that while Jet Moto 2 is flawed, it has enough novel features over its predecessor to be worth buying.
As "Lieutenant Cole", Nanette finds herself aboard the USS Callister, where "Lieutenant" Lowry explains that they are digital clones of Callister Inc.
TMA-2 thus converted Jupiter into a new star (dubbed "Lucifer", meaning "light-bringer") to warm Europa into more habitable conditions – at the cost of exterminating the Jovians, ocean-like creatures who swam through the upper atmosphere of Jupiter.
The plots revolve around the emergency vehicles Paulie Police Car and Fiona Fire Engine who tackle a new mission in each episode.
In the Alien Force pilot episode "Ben 10 Returns", Labrid is killed in battle with the Forever Knights.
This also means that everything in the moment from then on changes, providing a completely different and alternate future.
See also References External links IXS Enterprise (IXS-110), images by Mark Rademaker (on Flickr) Warp Field Physics (PDF) Video (58:59) - Faster-Than-Light - SpaceVision 2013 on YouTube Video (03:57) - NASA unveils IXS Enterprise on YouTube
The magazine had a in-depth material, including interviews with the cast and crew, behind the scenes information on many episodes, original fiction (by O'Bannon, DeCandido, Greg Cox, John Kenneth Muir, and others), and a regular column by David Kemper.
The final version of Rover was inspired by a weather balloon seen above Portmeirion by production manager Bernard Williams.
However, Apollo remembers that he'd thought the same thing about Helios whom he had recently encountered in the Labyrinth after Medea had resurrected the Titan.
Zack Thompson appears in the “Viltrumite War” storyline, collaborating with characters like Invincible, Omni Man, and Allen the Alien.
While Ivo is furious at this development, Morrow reveals he deliberately made Tomorrow Woman's brain advanced enough to develop her own personality and ethics, and so her act of free will is a demonstration of his genius.
Lee noted in an interview with PlayStation Museum that rain particles "actually streak in 3D according to your camera speed", noting that other games used a 2D effect on the game's HUD to produce the effect of rain.
This connection to Rai does not exist in the Acclaim Entertainment reboot canon or in the 2012 relaunched Valiant Universe.
The Switch version performs better than the Wii U release when docked to a television, although when undocked, both run at the same resolution.
Initially, Kotori was disliked by the manga readers as Clamp pointed out she did not any major appeal other that being cute.
In particular, it is an imaginary experiment to demonstrate that evolution may not necessarily lead to dominance by intellectually superior life forms.
Overdrive is later sent to steal the Sonic Pulse Generator from a laboratory, but is thwarted by Spider-Man.
Although the connections to its predecessor will not be relatively overt, due to licensing issues, it was noted that certain traditional RPG elements are relatively hard to copyright, and some elements of Planescape: Torment may make a reappearance.
Charles Stross also makes epub, mobi, aportis and rtf versions of Accelerando available for download from his blog.
Der Audio Verlag audio book on 3 times 2 CDs (total playing time 460 minutes), read by Stefan Kaminski in 2006.
In his book A Vision of the Future, author Stephan Edward Poe wrote the holonovel was intended to provide: "new ways for crew members to learn ...
Lacking contemporary astronauts, it gives the command to Wilson Kime, one of the members of the original Mars mission.
This wasn't helped by the fact that Nagai was in the middle of a court battle with Toei, suing them for not properly crediting him and not paying him royalties over the creation of Gaiking in 1976.
Donquixote Doflamingo Donquixote Doflamingo (ドンキホーテ・ドフラミンゴ, Donkihōte Dofuramingo) is the captain of the Donquixote Pirates, the usurper king of the island Dressrosa, and formerly one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.[ch.
Princess Oona Princess Oona is a character created by Stefan Printz-Påhlson and his wife Unn Printz-Påhlson in the story "Princess Oona" (Anders And & Co.
Motoko is also more prone to mischief when punishing others for what she feels to be slights, using her hacking skills to make Batou punch himself, for example, or appearing nude during their meeting in cyberspace.
According to series co-creator Matt Groening, the suicide booth concept was inspired by a 1937 Donald Duck cartoon, Modern Inventions, in which Donald Duck visits a Museum of the Future and is nearly killed by various push button gadgets.
In practice, the term functions primarily as a specific named variant within the broader and historically diverse category of ji polearms.
Location filming took place in July 1961 around London, including at IBM's offices on Wigmore Street, and in the vicinity of Tenby in Pembrokeshire, Wales where the Manorbier Army Base stood in for the Thorness research centre.
The following day, the robots have now evolved into incorporeal energy beings of transcendent higher consciousness that are no longer concerned with corporeal beings including Farnsworth, and send the crew home.
Other media Video games The Carmageddon video game series borrows heavily from the plot, characters and car designs from the film Death Race 2000.
Characters are split into teams, and bikes are adorned with logos of products such as Mountain Dew and Doritos, similar to real-life sponsored racing.
More potent versions of this spell include resurrection, which needs only a fragment of the body, and true resurrection, which doesn't need the body at all and can be performed many years after the character's death.
Smythe's continued efforts to perfect his machines lead to him contracting fatal radiation poisoning from the building materials of his creations.
Although the technology is still in development, it has enabled some legally blind individuals to distinguish letters again.
Acclaim Comics continuity The Acclaim Entertainment reboot version of Bloodshot, named Raymond Garrison, possesses the same powers but has the appearance of chalk-white skin and red eyes at all times.
The stories were drawn by a number of artists and Dave Gibbons has fond memories of his work on Ro-Busters: I used to love doing Ro-Busters.
This later led the writers to develop a full story arc for GLaDOS where she would come to recall her past, learn from it to solve the dilemma, and then subsequently delete it and reset herself.
When the Eleventh Doctor travels to the time of the Romans to find a prison named the Pandorica, an alliance of his enemies arrive to stop him, including the Consciousness.
The Metamorphoses also includes a story in which Athena transforms Arachne into a spider such that "her whole body became tiny." According to Porphyry, the love god Eros grows when he is near his brother Anteros, but shrinks back down to his previous small form when they are apart.
When crossed before her, the bracelets are able to generate a remnant of the Aegis, allowing Diana to deflect attacks far larger than the surface area of her bracelets.
Movie and 2026's The Super Mario Galaxy Movie, in which he is shown to be a Brooklyn native for the first time since before Yoshi's Island.
At the time, "the advance was the largest ever made for a book that had not yet been written." The first printing was 265,000 copies.
He brought the head of his father back to Mariejois in hopes of receiving his Celestial title back again.
Using E=mc2, −700 kilograms of mass is equivalent to ~−63 exajoules of energy (this number is not definitive and can be further reduced).
Sorikondar (ソリコンダー) (voice: Minoru Inaba) Name derived from sorikomi (剃り込み), again referring to his hairstyle.
Devil Satan 6 (played by Kenichi Ono) Six monstrous robots that can combine into the giant Devil Satan 6 robot.
Feldrance (フェルドランス, Feldlance) (CODE: 227) Voiced by: Misato Sakamoto (Japanese); Mona Marshall (English) A cold-hearted android in the form of a youth who was created by and works under the Management's robotics scientist Professor Mephlis during his scheme to take Mahoro for himself.
A Judge appears in Nemesis the Warlock Book V: The Vengeance of Thoth, which also features Hammerstein, Ro-Jaws and Mek-Quake.
Animals This section contains animal characters who act like animals, unlike the majority of characters in this article, who are highly anthropomorphized animals that act like humans.
Gypsy played a key role in the series' overall plot in episode #512, Mitchell, when she overheard the Mads discussing killing Mike Nelson, who was currently working at Gizmonic Institute as a temp, and mistakenly believed they were plotting to kill Joel.
He conceived its movement as "unanimal"-like as if it was constantly about to fall over before catching itself.
Gideon is armed with a wide variety of weaponry to destroy anything it finds trying to escape the dimension known as "The Edge".
Comedian Chris Elliott, while realising that Boilerplate was fictional, thought that the spoof dated back to the 19th century and included the character in one of his books (see below).
Film Technovore appears in Iron Man: Rise of Technovore, voiced by Miyu Irino in the Japanese version and Eric Bauza in the English dub.
Battleworld and Ultron-12 Ultron-9 and Ultron-10 brainwash heroes into recreating the robot, before turning and being defeated.
At the July 2005 annual conference of the Society for Cryobiology, 21st Century Medicine announced the vitrification of a rabbit kidney to −135 °C with their vitrification mixture.
Emerging from their ship, they find themselves caught up in the struggle between the Gurendos forces and the Algo Republic, eventually joining forces with the rough-and-tumble bunch of Machine Robo known as the Battle Hackers team to help save B-1 and eventually find a way back to Earth.
The name "subspace" has also been adopted and used in other fictional settings, such as the Stargate franchise, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, the Bobiverse series, and Descent: Freespace.
Arctiguana's Ultimate form (also voiced by Eric Bauza), used by Albedo, is larger and possesses shoulder-mounted ice cannons.
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave it 4 out of 4, describing Tarantino as "effortlessly and brilliantly in command of his technique".
Such is the crisis that after only a few days cuts his human allies loose to devote all of his resources defending a narrow corridor through Chu to the Rim and to the wider world.
They tended to unsettle viewers, due to their non-human yet non-toy nor cartoon appearance, and the series of commercials was abandoned.
Placing it on a balance scale with the tube's positive electrode facing up, the tube's mass seemed to decrease when the power was on.
After the Satellite of Love crashed into the Earth in the final episode of the original run of MST3K (#1013: Diabolik), GPC is not present with Mike and the Bots in their shared apartment.
On 1 June 2013, a campaign launched featuring a robot named Brian, depicted as being on a mission to help people to "save pounds".
The subsequent hijack and disappearance of flight JL50 and Bihu along with it in 1984 means that Shantanu grows up an orphan and goes on to join the CBI.
This is all part of a successful plan to conquer the Earth and the Calculator is left a groveling witness to various Libra-headed executions.
In the 2014 film Interstellar, directed by Christopher Nolan, two robots named TARS and CASE accompany four NASA astronauts on their journey in the search of a new home for humanity.
Characters The twelve children are divided into three teams according to their particular field of rescue.
Tollan Stargate In "Pretense", the advanced Tollan civilization is shown to have a new Stargate, built with the assistance of the Nox.
When the X-Men learn about the existence of OZT some months before the operation becomes public, Jean Grey and Gambit sneak into an OZT meeting being held at the Pentagon to learn more about the program and its leader Bastion, but do not come out with much information.
She had discovered that she was a Prime Sentinel; humans transformed into Sentinels and set up as 'sleeper' agents, unaware of their programming until a nearby mutant activated them (as in Neal's usage of his mutant powers).
The fictional Brand X "other battery" depicted in the ad was made to look like rival Energizer batteries, much in the same way that Energizer's fictional rival "Supervolt" was made to resemble Duracell batteries.
Rotational simulated gravity has been proposed as a solution in human spaceflight to the adverse health effects caused by prolonged weightlessness.
Toby Loobenfield (DJ Qualls), a scientist at Caltech whom Sheldon hires to play his fictional drug-addicted cousin Leo Dr.
Lightning Trap - Leina & Laika Taking place in the middle of the Wolf Sword Legend feature, this story centers on Leina Haruka, whose plane has been hijacked by a group of thugs led by the supernatural wizard Zarik.
Weller was immediately frustrated because the costume was too cumbersome for him to move as he had practiced.
There is another alien faction at work, however, represented on Earth by small spider-like robots that recruit human agents through some form of mind control.
The character Major Charles Kawalsky describes Stargate travel as worse than "pulling out of a simulated bombing run in an F-16 at eight-plus g", with Major Louis Ferretti adding that on the other side one is "frozen stiff like having just been through a blizzard naked".
Additionally, Wiklem requested that all of the original Jet Moto tracks be unlocked at the start of the game.
Vehicles in films Cars and trucks Other road vehicles Miscellaneous land vehicles Military land vehicles Trains Aircraft Marine vehicles Spacecraft and space weapons Vehicles in books This list includes all types of vehicles.
He is equally disdainful of a friend who keeps asking him to join his Club, expecting that also to be just a ruse to get at his money.
David Carradine stars as "Frankenstein", the leading champion of the race, who is targeted by an underground rebel movement seeking to abolish the race.
The two later briefly returned in Passing of the Torch, in which Tommy, Adam, Kat, and Tanya retired from their Ranger duties.
Curry took special care to merge the blue-screen effects with Kolbe's footage seamlessly to achieve the effect of the manor transforming back into the holodeck.
Virtually undetectable to all but the Bene Gesserit, these Face Dancers begin to replace leaders in the Imperium as a means for the Tleilaxu to seize control.
Kubrick used a near homophone of "CRM 114", "Serum 114", for the name of a drug injected into Alex to help his reformation in A Clockwork Orange (1971).
Most of his effective plans have come from Karen, including "Plan Z"—the only scheme to result in Plankton successfully stealing the formula and using it to his advantage—in The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie.
Plot Cybergirl is a Blue superheroine Human Prototype 6000 living under the secret identity of ordinary teenage girl Ashley Campbell.
Q puts together a makeshift one to fool Blofield, remarking that he made one for "the kids last Christmas." Water ball Used by Bond to "walk" on water when he is parachuted near Blofield's platform.
Lego Batman: The Video Game features batarangs (in two different colors), which can be used by four characters; Batman, Batgirl, Robin, and Nightwing.
His outfit consists of a pair of boots, white gloves, a red cape, and a crown atop his head, while his eyes are always in a closed state.
According to del Toro, Gottlieb is a "tweed-wearing, English, phlegmatic introvert that never leaves the lab".
In addition, the Foundation trilogy was consistently high in the Locus polls of all-time best novels, climbing to be voted the 3rd best 20th century science fiction novel in the 2012 poll, behind only Frank Herbert's Dune and Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game.
In the Kidsongs 1991 video: "Very Silly Songs", the Kidsongs Kids and their silly adult friends, Willy and Jilly, say the magic words "One and a two and a bop bam boom" to teleport themselves from one place of Silly-Dillyville to another.
Casting choices Tom Cruise, Johnny Depp, Brad Pitt, Nicolas Cage, and Leonardo DiCaprio were approached for the role.
Appears to be a Chinese fan, but when opened, several metal spikes with strings attached are thrown.
He is an inventor, whose various inventions frequently get out of hand and get him and the family into trouble.
"Gay bomb" is an informal term referring to a proposed non-lethal psychochemical weapon that was speculated by the United States Air Force in the 1990s.
Not that that tells us very much of course - the computer industry didn't even foresee that the century was going to end.
Anti-gravity research In 1921, while experimenting in the lab his parents had set up for him while he was still in high school, Brown discovered an unusual effect while experimenting with a Coolidge tube (hot cathode tube), a type of X-ray vacuum tube with two asymmetrical electrodes.
It is also the band's highest-charting song in the United States, climbing to number 26 on the Billboard Hot 100, and in Canada, where it peaked at number 10.
Some works feature magic that is performed through the use of certain words or incantations to cast spells.
Exactly 100 years earlier (in 1920) and in the same building, then a mansion, the upper-class girl Rakel Colt is getting ready to be photographed with her family.
After this, she visited a now paralyzed Hideo Kuze in hospital and eventually convinced him to undergo the cyberization procedure himself.
Bates' ambitions generally extend to finding menial work some distance behind the front lines, keeping his head down until the war is over and trying to get out of wearing regulation footwear.
In late 2008, season five and eventually all five seasons were made available through iTunes TV Shows store.
The game allows the player to transform at any time into three different robot forms: Cyborg, Dino, and Tank.
The winner of the competition was Final Frontier Medical Devices, which is now known as Basil Leaf Technologies.
The album cover for Just Push Play by Aerosmith (2001) features a "curvy female robot in a Marilyn Monroe-like pose.".
In the end, Apocalypse's horsemen are lost, Ozymandias betrays him, and he is forced to retreat by a combined assault of the X-Men and the Avengers.
Peabody ("Sherman, set the Wayback machine to..."), Sherman would set the Wayback controls to a time and place of historical importance, and by walking through a door in the Wayback machine, they would be instantly transported there.
Sterling further emphasized that while Cait Sith was Reeve's puppet, he was a puppet himself through the game for Shinra's higher ups and their own ambitions, until he rebels and earned his redemption by standing up to them.
Ohkawa specifically chose the idea of seven characters from two groups because she was influenced by religious groups but wanted to avoid Christian references.
Walt Simonson's Fantastic Four #350 controversially revealed that the Doom seen during Englehart's arc was a robotic imposter, with the real Doom returning in new armor to reclaim Latveria.
Cybergirl is an Australian-French children's television series that was first broadcast on Network Ten in Australia.
The assassin defeats Subaru in battle when they meet for the very first time since the events in Tokyo Babylon, but leaves the younger man alive.
While still alive, they enter the Pavulean Hell on a mission to reveal the existence and details of this Hell to the general population.
The ship has two thick outer rings (to reduce required energy) that generate the warp field—a contraction of space ahead, and expansion of space behind it.
Due to such an action being forbidden, he inserted the universe into Ice King's mind as it was the only thing just insane enough to retain such information.
In other media In the Star Trek episode "A Taste of Armageddon", people who were deemed war casualties by the government of Eminiar VII were required to enter suicide booths.
Naga is much more graceful than Lina and has an outrageously loud boisterous 'noblewoman' (ojousama) laugh (which Kanzaka said is similar to the laughter of Naga's mother) that most people in the Slayers world find unbearably obnoxious (to the point of rendering them physically powerless).
Caiera uses her Old Power to protect her womb, saving Skaar and Hiro-Kala from the blast, but landing them in fire.
He and the crew are rescued by the hovercraft Mjolnir (also known as the Hammer) whose crew is dealing with a mystery in the form of Bane, a crew member from another ship who is the only survivor of an ill-fated attack by the Zion fleet.
Mira and Rakel both stumble upon the black hole and are involuntarily pulled in by it, switching bodies and time periods.
(A similar theme is explored in Fred Saberhagen's Berserker novels.) Cultural reference It features a character, Lawrence Van Cott, that is modelled on science fiction author Larry Niven, whose full name is "Laurence van Cott Niven".
He differs from the previous incarnation by the fact that he died and was resurrected by nanite technology to become Bloodshot.
The plot concerns contact between humanity and a more technologically advanced extraterrestrial life form.
It is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field and also related to the concept of suspended animation.
Samuel Butler's 1863 article Darwin among the Machines is a non-fiction essay which discussed the potential risks and possibility of the human race being superseded by thinking machines.
The next surrounding Dyson sphere would absorb this waste heat and use it for its computational purposes, all while giving off waste heat of its own.
While Superman frees the cities of Metropolis and Kandor, the villain launches a missile to the Kent farm in an act of spite.
It grossed a total of $70 million in the United States and Canada and $110.9 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $180.9 million.
Evelyn Necker Evelyn Clarice Sarah Necker is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
The kidney was successfully transplanted upon rewarming to a rabbit, the rabbit being euthanized on the 48th day for histological follow-up.
Fusion Home Energy Reactor converts household waste to power for the time machine's flux capacitor and time circuits using nuclear fusion, presumably cold fusion.
The ship's medical variant employs a detachable "sensor probe" stored in the bottom compartment when not in use.
GLaDOS also acts as the primary antagonist in a bonus level bridging the events of Portal 2 with Lego Dimensions, wherein Chell and Wheatley (returned from space redeemed with anti-gravity abilities) defeat her by performing a core transfer using the Space Core.
Instead of being imprisoned, Sykes is subjected to a treatment that ages him sixty years, the penalty for murder on Valeron.
Tarantino saved most of the Bride's character development for the second film, saying he wanted to make her scary rather than sympathetic for Volume 1.
merchandise would "cause devastating damage to Luxo and dilute the goodwill which Luxo has built up." Disney settled with Luxo ASA and agreed not to sell Luxo Jr.
Sometimes acting like a Kabuki performer, he is specially designed to drill through the earth and performs extreme rescue situations.
Given the fact the Revenge of Cronos robotic characters appear here in new human forms, the Blue Jet and the Rod Drill appearing with the usual robotic forms in Battle Hackers may be all-different robots.
After restoring her memory, which was lost due to the imprisonment, Gambit invites Danger to join the new X-Factor team.
The draft was accepted, and Sakamoto published Tank Tankuro's stories in the magazine for four years.
The episode's prologue depicts Benjamin Sisko (Avery Brooks) as First Officer on the USS Saratoga, in the Starfleet armada dispatched to confront the Borg at Wolf 359.
In the epilogue, it is revealed that Numataka was Ensei Tankado's father who left Tankado the day he was born due to Tankado's deformity.
Variants The use of the batarang has been in a state of constant development since its early appearances.
The armor is equipped with a prototype triple pulse generator, a laser net and a pair of retractable blasters mounted on the back.
Ultron made his live-action debut in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Avengers: Age of Ultron, portrayed by James Spader, who will reprise the role in the Disney+ series VisionQuest.
US military planned 'gay bomb' Air force looked at spray to turn enemy gay Air Force Considered Gay 'Love Bomb' Against Enemies US Military "Gay Bomb" Video (Republican National Convention blog)
See also Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter References External links Dark Horse Comic's product page Archived 2012-11-06 at the Wayback Machine The Amazing Screw-On Head at IMDb Complete pilot on Youtube
Tank Tankuro is considered one of the first robot and science fiction manga, inspiring characters like Osamu Tezuka's Astro Boy and Fujiko Fujio's Doraemon; however it was preceded by the 1929 comic story Jinzō ningen (Artificial human) by Suihō Tagawa.
Neo tells Morpheus that the prophecy was merely another system of control and that Zion's destruction is imminent.
Macy takes after her mother in terms of both appearance and fighting ability, and the queen is just as handy with a mace as her daughter.
This led her father to report her, and she was eventually imprisoned by the IMDF (Indian Mutant Defense Force).
Interviews with the following people are featured (in order of appearance): Tanya Jones, Chief Operating Officer, Alcor Michael Riskin, Ph.D., Alcor Board of Directors and Member Anita Riskin, Alcor Member Dr Arthur W.
Like the film's other character costumes, the Alpha 5 suit Rixon donned was specifically designed for the movie.
In Godplayers (2005), Damien Broderick surmises that a matrioshka brain would allow simulating entire alternate universes.
A good portion of the story's humour comes from Mahoro chasing after Suguru's secret stash of pornographic magazines which, given her training, she is easily able to find.
Through the code breaking in Project A, Mitra had discovered the coordinates of a wormhole which were in the sky.
where there is a net flux of lines of force, through what topologists would call "a handle" of the multiply-connected space, and what physicists might perhaps be excused for more vividly terming a "wormhole".
The Wayback Machine or WABAC Machine is a fictional time machine and plot device from the 1960s American cartoon television series The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends.
However, he has said that the flyboard was not yet suitable for military use due to the noise it creates and the challenge of learning how to fly the device.
To raise awareness of global warming, Christmas of 1920 is depicted as snowy while in 2020, there is no snow on the ground.
As a death-row inmate, Wright donated his body in 2003 to a Cyberdyne project run by the brilliant, but terminally ill Dr.
This scrapped further plans for returns, which included a serial which would have written out the Second Doctor's companion Jamie McCrimmon.
In Dune (1965), House Atreides Mentat Thufir Hawat is considered to be one of the finest Mentats of his time, and his protégé, Paul Atreides, is trained as a Mentat.
King Halbert loves his wife and daughter but is not entirely comfortable with Macy being one of the knights, and wouldn't have allowed her to graduate had it not been for his queen's intervention.
It was his third science fiction novel not to be based or set in The Culture, the earlier two being Against a Dark Background and Feersum Endjinn.
"A Logic Named Joe" is a science fiction short story by American writer Murray Leinster, first published in the March 1946 issue of Astounding Science Fiction.
Play Pretend with Muno, in which Muno encourages viewers to pretend along with him, as he imagines himself as different animals, even an astronaut and a Christmas tree.
Ultimate Spidermonkey (voiced by Baker in Ultimate Alien and Paul Eiding in Omniverse) resembles a large purple gorilla with spider legs and can generate webs from his mouth.
A harsher verdict came from Philip Phillips of the Daily Herald who said, "The next six episodes might be brilliant.
In order to conserve CPU cycles for other things the developers used gameplay recordings in place of fully developed racer AI.
Tōru's death occurs just prior to the beginning of the first volume of the manga (chronologically) and is what causes Kamui to return to Tokyo after a six-year absence.
Batarangs are a staple of Batman's arsenal, appearing in every major Batman television and film adaptation to date.
The first film, Stargate: The Ark of Truth, was released in March 2008 and wraps up the Ori storyline.
Clay rides around in the Rumble Blade, a large vehicle with two sidecars and a plane shaped like a sword that splits off into smaller vehicles.
Bi-Bi-Bi Black (ビビビブラック) Devil Satan 6 (played by Kenichi Ono) Six monstrous robots that can combine into the giant Devil Satan 6 robot.
The microphone takes in outside sound, turns that sound to electrical signals, and sends those signals to the amplifier.
Mignola imagined a robot with a head that screwed onto different bodies to suit the occasion, hence "Screw-on Head".
Jerubaal was meant to carry out the same task as Gideon (using its own catch phrase, "Obliterate!"), but disabled Gideon to win the favour of their creators, The Silent Ones, by guarding "The Edge" itself.
Sequels Vinge wrote a sequel to The Snow Queen called The Summer Queen (1991), with a shorter novel, World's End (1984), linking the two.
On January 7, 2021, the YouTube channel Hacksmith Industries uploaded a video of a functional hoverboard capable of sustaining the weight of a human.
The character of Metal Mickey first appeared on British television in the ITV children's magazine show The Saturday Banana, produced by Southern Television in 1978.
Iron Man investigates and finds that the space station's crew have been transformed into techno-organic creatures.
The Masters should've known we would gather enough of them one day to make our own decisions about our own future." Sequels In Brian Herbert and Kevin J.
Although the astronauts are wearing zero-G 'grip shoes' in order to walk normally, they are oddly leaning on the table while testing the AE-35 unit as if held down by gravity.
On the other hand, an algorithm is a programmable procedure that produces reproducible results using invariant established methods (such as computing square roots).
Upon learning of the Commonwealth's existence, MorningLightMountain makes it its primary objective to destroy it.
For all of the radio series and the 1981 TV series, the role was credited as "The Book", though this was changed to "Narrator/The Guide" for the 2005 movie.
For instance, his communicator inspired cell phone inventor Martin Cooper's desire to create his own form of mobile communication device.
Needle later battles the West Coast Avengers alongside Satannish, who enhances his abilities using black magic.
DJ Lance Rock, Muno, Foofa, Plex, Brobee, and Toodee performed in Wollongong, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Sydney with an indie house-band and secret special guests at each show.
An audio simulcast of the program airs on sister radio network Fox Sports Radio, which is distributed by Premiere Radio Networks.
Nikko and Lazarus succeed in reprogramming the ninjabots using a wireless link from a laptop computer, forcing them to attack each other.
Shia LaBlade (voiced by Ian Hanlin) – The Tighty Knighties' counterpart of Clay who wields a double-bladed sword.
The Department of Public Disinformation, not trusting Castillo, recruits Juan Jimenez "JJ" Gonzales, a hacktivist whose parents were killed by Castillo, to spy on Castillo.
In 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, actress and director Hanka Brulińska created a 13-min short Maska, dedicated to the Year of Lem.
With a bloody jihad subsequently unleashed across the universe in Paul's name but out of his control, the Bene Gesserit, Tleilaxu, Spacing Guild and House Corrino plot to dethrone him in Dune Messiah (1969).
In a 2014 interview at the Toulouse Game Show, Rhys-Davies stated that the inability to get writers who had read science fiction in the first place led to the show's downfall, and their inexperience in the area led to the show often repurposing ideas from other works.
Joker 2.0 (voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson) is a copy of Joker's mind who gained a digital clone body following an accident with a special helmet that Marty Slack invented.
Shinbo then forces Yoshiyuki to transfer his persocom Kotoko's registration to Hideki to prevent Yoshiyuki from deleting her memories, so that a record of his kidnapping exists.
Legacy Jet Moto 2 was the last game developed by SingleTrac for publisher Sony Computer Entertainment, as they would later be acquired by GT Interactive.
Charles Bramesco considered Daly characteristic of the nerd who assumes the role of the bully after himself being bullied.
The bracelets are magically made to be indestructible by Aphrodite, and are used as magically indestructible bracers which can deflect bullets, energy weapons, and any murderous weapons in Man's World.
Set between the years 1987 and 2004, the book details the efforts of physicists George and Roger as they work to bring the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) online in Waxahachie, Texas.
History The overthrow or destruction of the human race by mechanical automatons is likely the oldest form of techno-horror, with examples such as the Greek Myth Talos dating back to 400 BC.
Disch said that he was unable to publish the story as a children's book at first, because publishers thought the concept of talking appliances was too "far-fetched", even after Disch had sold it to Disney as a film; Doubleday finally published it as a part of a five-book contract.
Instead, the nano-machines create a secondary artificial musculature over Stark's body, upon which additional rigid structures are assembled.
The examiners concluded that "it seems likely that his external temperature has remained at relatively low subzero temperatures throughout the storage interval." The date of Bedford's cryopreservation, January 12, is known as "Bedford Day" by some promoters of cryopreservation.
Meanwhile, they meet an eight legged lizard-like alien named Flash, with whom they become friends, and together they discover the planet, its fauna, its flora...
In an epilogue set 1000 years later, humanity invents their own form of faster-than-light travel and uses it to finally reconnect the colony worlds, with the epilogue showing the reconnection to Earth.
They consist of Sentries (which come in Medical, Combat, and Advanced Combat variants), Seekers (used to track down cross-species), and Hunters (arachnid-like flying robots called in by the Seekers to eliminate cross-species once they are found).
In September 2010, Confused.com introduced the character of "Cara Confused" a wild-haired animated version of the original company mascot that was present on the former Confused.com logo.
Victor discovers that his actual "father" is Ultron, who created him as a sleeper agent for the Avengers.
Raymond and Monique (née Leroy) Martinot were a French couple whose quest for cryonic preservation came to an end after a freezer malfunction in 2006.
Using the computer to decode the message, Fleming realises that the message contains a set of instructions for the construction of another more advanced computer.
Colony worlds Cibola Burn is a book heavily influenced by westerns which tells the story of one of the early colony worlds through the Ring Network, Ilus, experiencing a confrontation between refugee settlers and the corporation that has been granted rights to it.
Season 3 The UN declares war, as Earth and Mars send science vessels to investigate what is happening on Venus.
Although uranium-235 was used in the bomb on Hiroshima, the nuclear bomb dropped on Nagasaki used plutonium-239 (created from U-238).
Network Network is an alias utilized by several characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
The Commonwealth Saga is a series of science fiction novels by British science fiction writer Peter F.
During "Infinity Countdown", Ultron discovers that the Infinity Gems are restored and begins a quest to collect them all.
The lack of Beverly's maternal feelings and actions toward Leonard has led to him having an obsessive need to please.
She has a knack for programming and high tech inventions such as the computer sword Techcalibur which enabled her to upload Merlok 2.0 into the Fortrex.
Publication Last Order was on hiatus since the 100th installment due to a disagreement between Kishiro and an editor of Shueisha's Ultra Jump magazine.
The central hub with artificial gravity houses a whole city and vast war game areas, where people made immortal by nanotechnology pay to fight for fun.
Sean Johnson of GameRevolution called the graphics "a vast improvement over the grainy, somewhat choppy visuals of Jet Moto and Jet Moto 2." Jay Boor of IGN also praised the game's visuals, citing a vastly improved framerate and draw distance than Jet Moto and Jet Moto 2.
See also Crash and Burn – 1990 film also released in some markets as a sequel to Robot Jox References External links Robo Warriors at IMDb
He chose the former, with Cait Sith riding atop its shoulders while it walked by hopping and skipping along.
It was first published as a four-part serial in Galaxy Science Fiction magazine from May to August, 1977.
Ellen (known as Nancy in the series for apparent copyright reasons) and Jimmy Murphy were recurring characters as well, often finding themselves crossing paths with Murphy by falling in inadvertently or intentionally with the criminal element to which Murphy interfered and protected them from harm.
National Institutes of Health (NIH) to study a preservation solution developed by the University of Rochester in New York for extending simple cold storage time of human hearts removed for transplant.
To ensure the enemy cannot plant false transmissions and fake orders, the CRM 114 is to be switched into the receiver circuit prior to receiving attack or attack cancellation orders.
When all the humans are gone, Dulcie, and her counterpart on the "Other Side" Decorum, begin to reach back in time for more humans to control, so that their simulations may have more humans as playing pieces, to kill when each loses a battle.
Rojo Rojo (voiced by Jennifer Hale in the original series and Omniverse, Kari Wahlgren in Ultimate Alien) is a thief and gang leader.
In simple terms, it was described as a 24th century advancement from the 23rd century "food synthesizer" seen in Star Trek: The Original Series.
One day his British friend Walter Wallace comments on the strange pattern of Jones's typographical errors.
"A History Channel Thanksgiving" is the thirteenth episode of the fifteenth season of the American animated television series South Park, and the 222nd episode overall.
Of these, 16 were 'regular'-sized figures (simply referred to as "Robo Machines") and 6 were "De Luxe" figures.
She is found by Hideki, a high school graduate who has no idea about her unique abilities or of her past.
Decades later, Donald Duck accidentally discovered Lord Quackett's secret hideout and decided to become the Duck Avenger (Italian: Paperinik).
Among the members of the Sea Monster Army are: Marquis de Seaweed - The leader of the Sea Monster Army who wields a trident.
21st Century Medicine (21CM) is a California cryobiological research company which has as its primary focus the development of perfusates and protocols for viable long-term cryopreservation of human organs, tissues and cells at temperatures below −100 °C through the use of vitrification.
Kyle Reese has been targeted as a priority kill, a higher level than even John Connor and the Resistance leaders.
The weapon is widely recognized in Chinese opera, folklore, martial-arts performance, and modern media, though the term's exact historical form and standardization are not uniform across sources.
Objects passing between stargates behave as if they pass through a doorway; momentum, for instance, is conserved at either end of the wormhole.
Banks is a science fiction novel in his Culture series, first published in the UK on 7 October 2010 and the US on 28 October 2010.
In "The Dogs of War", he became one of the few Star Trek actors to play two unrelated roles (Brunt and Weyoun) in the same episode.
She can also transform into living electricity to travel through electric currents and control electronic devices.
The podracers were recreated using specifications from the film, and the Tatooine environment was also sourced from the film.
Roger Ebert, writing in the Chicago Sun-Times, rated Short Circuit 1.5 out of 4 stars and called it "too cute for its own good".
In the Star Trek franchise, subspace communications have a limit of just over 20 light years before they must be boosted, although this limitation has been ignored in several storylines.
This version is a metahuman who was born with superhuman abilities and was originally a radio host who was fired when Miguel, the owner of the station she broadcasts on, decides to turn the station into a country station.
Going into space with new and old companions alike, to look for her lost friend Lou Collins and to find out more about her forgotten past, Alita is caught up in an interplanetary struggle between the major powers of the colonized Solar System.
Publication history Life Model Decoys debuted in the short story "The Man For the Job!" in the anthology book Strange Tales #135 (August 1965), created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby.
The scene in which Joseph has his money stolen is the last scene in the series in which Joseph is present.
Conceptual overview Asimov remained vague about the technical details of positronic brains except to assert that their substructure was formed from an alloy of platinum and iridium.
Freezing the astronauts would probably involve whole-body vitrification and would, most likely, be frozen at 145 kelvins to reduce the risk of fracturing.
When tackling the issue of the time machine's origins, the creative team decided that an eccentric individual named Doc Brown built it in his garage rather than a corporation, which Bob Gale said gave it a "slapdash, kind of cool look to it".
Writers noted that, prior to his introduction, many fans sent them messages expressing a desire to see X portrayed as a darker character.
Elsewhere, the Chairman explains that Frankenstein has become a liability due to his longevity, whereas Perfectus will encourage his devoted fans to die at his hands.
In the aftermath of the Secret Empire storyline, Bastion works with Miss Sinister, Emma Frost and Havok to use Mothervine, a drug that accelerates and activates mutation, on a global scale.
The Feynman–Stueckelberg interpretation states that antiparticles obey the same equations of motion as regular particles but with charge, parity and time inverted.
The three largest powers are the United Nations of Earth and Luna, the Martian Congressional Republic on Mars, and the Outer Planets Alliance (OPA), a loose political confederation of colonies scattered across the asteroid belt and the moons of Jupiter and Saturn.
The writer felt that sometimes Joseph was more comical to the point it feels he is breaking the fourth wall.
In First Contact, the Borg Queen is seen during a flashback of Picard's former assimilation, establishing she was present during the events of "Best of Both Worlds".
We start becoming a married couple [when recording]." Reception Critical response Sandie Angulo Chen of Common Sense Media praised the amount of screen time given to Karen in Sponge Out of Water, calling her "hilarious".
He accompanies the NYPD and Homeland Security to the Baxter Building to do a full investigation on the weapons of mass destruction that may be located there.
The contest, which awards prizes of up to $4,000, has been won by at least six people who later won the Nobel Prize in physics.
Zhaan sacrifices the last of her life to separate the ships, adding more guilt to Crichton's conscience.
Although he maintains that he is merely a simple tailor, Garak is a former agent of the Obsidian Order, the feared Cardassian secret police; his skills and contacts on Cardassia prove invaluable on several occasions, and he becomes a pivotal figure in the war with the Dominion.
It was the planet farthest from the Galactic Centre; its name reflects that fact: Latin terminus means 'end of the line'.
The show was made by London Weekend Television and shown on the ITV network, with the entire run of 41 episodes being written by comedy writer Colin Bostock-Smith.
All had been released as Gobots between 1983 and 1986, and the majority originated from Bandai's Machine Robo '600 Series'.
The station itself remained a physical model throughout the series' seven-year run, except for the final scene of the series.
Relation to actual devices Pohl himself, in an afterword to the novel, made the following statement about the world he foresaw: "I do not really think it will be that long.
They were originally created by writers Henry Lincoln and Mervyn Haisman and first appeared in the 1967 serial The Abominable Snowmen.
Number Twelve agrees to help Number Six but Twelve is also an intimate of Number Two, with whom he discusses Number Six derogatorily, indicating Twelve may be an embedded guard.
This is a list of noteworthy vehicles seen in James Bond, used by either Bond himself, his allies, or his enemies.
It incorporated several toys previously released in the Machine Robo and Robo Machine toy-lines, and five new toys that previously had only been released in Japan as part of the CG Robo toy-line.
Outside the Fortrex, his preferred means of travel is his Mecha Horse/Turbo Jouster, a robotic horse that can convert into a motorcycle.
She stays with the Acolytes, saying the only reason she is there is because Professor Xavier was there for her when she was first turned into a Sentinel.
In terms of appearance, Legion looks much like other geth units, but is far more advanced and capable of independent thought.
The Bride's yellow tracksuit, helmet and motorcycle resemble those used by Bruce Lee in the 1972 martial arts film Game of Death.
Expanding Imaginations and Fantasy Genres Zauberer Berlin (in German) Judgments of effort for magical violations of intuitive physics External links Lawrence Watt-Evans, "Laws of Fantasy", Starlog Patricia C.
Southerly Jason Klarwein as Sales Assistant Daniel Amalm as Marco Julie Eckersley as Julia Damien Garvey as Paramedic Remi Broadway as Zak Furnace Episodes Home media Cybergirl was released on DVD on 4 December 2006 as CyberGirl: The Superhero for a New Generation – The Complete Series.
Reception and influence The Mazinger Z anime consistently achieved high audience ratings while it was airing.
An affirmative answer causes nitrogen to flow into the capsule, displacing oxygen, and death follows shortly thereafter.
Yeow!" The game ranked tenth in the top ten racing titles for June 2000 according to the NPD Group; however, sales did not continue to hold strong.
Hyōtan-tsugi usually appeared falling in front of a character at the most inappropriate of times, and getting kicked out angrily by them, and Spider usually appeared in moments of tension, uttering his trademark phrase, Omukae de gonsu!
During this period, promotional claymation spots and teases became a popular fixture on the program, in which the four hosts were depicted as animated characters in live-action situations, usually starring real-life NFL players.
Brown refined his invention over the years and eventually devised designs consisting of metal plates or disks charged with 25,000 to 200,000 volts that would produce a propulsive force, which he continued to claim was an anti-gravity force.
The visual novel series To Heart features a number of gynoids including Multi, Serio, Feel, and Ilfa Unreal series gynoids, featured throughout (1998–2006) Vivienne, from Phantasy Star Portable (2008), is a CAST, the term used for androids in the game.
The web series ran from 2022 until 2024, but plans for a season 2 were cancelled due to a lack of funding.
It was initially scheduled for released on April 7, 2017, but was later pushed back to August 4, 2017, then February 23, 2018, and finally March 23, 2018.
This measure included estimates for both errors in measuring and errors from the statistical procedure used.
Midpoint Starlord Starzines 5 – 6 (2 episodes) As part of a secret US program, Lep-574 is the latest rocket launched from the Yucca desert, Nevada.
Created by writer Greg Pak and artist Ron Garney, he first appeared in Skaar: Son of Hulk #2 (September 2008).
military Joint Electronics Type Designation System (The "AN" System), CRM is the designator for an air-transportable cargo (C) radio (R) maintenance or test assembly (M) and 114 is a feasible series number.
A robot strongly resembling ED-209 is shown off by Genie in the film Aladdin and the King of Thieves.
Technovore can absorb technology into itself, adding the abilities of consumed technology into its physical being.
In the 1980s, DC Comics attempted to re-define several aspects of Superman's stories to boost sagging sales.
On 12 February 2016, it was announced that the anime would be broadcast on Adult Swim's Toonami programming block, replacing Akame ga Kill!, beginning on 28 February 2016.
Measuring trip time The travel time of the neutrinos had to be measured by tracking the time they were created, and the time they were detected, and using a common clock to ensure the times were in sync.
Agents from the History Channel appear, and when they tell Standish that they failed to open the wormhole to Plymouth by drawing the turkey symbol at Plymouth Rock, Standish informs them that they need Natalie Portman, who is the Keeper of the Portal.
It has been described as "one of the most iconic characters from Studio Ghibli" as well as "almost as recognizable as Totoro himself".
The character is a robotic soldier fighting for the British Army in World War II; due to a programming error the mechanical man will only obey the orders of layabout Private Ernest 'Excused Boots' Bates.
Stone Gnomes – A group of pointy-headed garden gnomes created by Roberto Arnoldi and brought to life by the Cloud of Monstrox to strengthen the Stone Monster Army.
When threatened, they can assemble into huge clouds, travel at a high speed, and even climb to the top of the troposphere.
Jacques uses Lyle Norg's invisibility serum to save Danielle and the others, becoming the second Invisible Kid.
As such, it shares many characters with the original books but also introduces a vast array of new characters.
Sonic becomes corrupted by the cyber energy running through him as Amy, Tails, Knuckles, and Eggman are released from Cyber Space, with Eggman gloating at his nemesis' apparent demise.
The crew's encounters with the robotic dinosaurs and Amy's two-piece cavewoman outfit are parodies of the 1940 fantasy film, One Million B.C.
Danger Cave With the Danger Room gone, the X-Men resorted to using the empty room to train with their students.
The film also shows flat-screen TV monitors, of which the first real-world prototype appeared in 1972 produced by Westinghouse, but was not used for broadcast television until 1998.
Gargoyles – A group of gargoyles reanimated by the Cloud of Monstrox who serve as the aerial foot soldiers of the Stone Monster Army.
For this reason, Matrioshka brains with more nested Dyson spheres would tend to be more efficient, as they would waste less heat energy.
During the "Stark Resilient" storyline, a fleet of unmanned flying drones aided in Detroit Steel's attack against Iron Man.
The licensed product produced by Playmates Toys was directed by Karl Aaronian, who was responsible for helming the development of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
In 1999, CERN activated the Antiproton Decelerator, a device capable of decelerating antiprotons from 3.5 GeV to 5.3 MeV – still too "hot" to produce study-effective antihydrogen, but a huge leap forward.
She is well loved by the populace of River City, however, and she enjoys the approval of Mayor Buxton, whose twin daughters Emerald and Sapphire are big fans of the superheroine.
He can also perform virtual phone calls, displaying his caller or receiver through his eyes as a hologram.
Atlas is voiced by Kaede Hondo in the original Japanese version and by Jad Saxton in the Crunchyroll dub.
However, the League and Rangers join forces to pursue Brainiac, regain the latter's powers, and eventually defeat him.
A stasis field or stasis chamber, in science fiction, is a confined area of space in which time does not pass.
Following the mission, he left the team with Deadlock to work at the Kollege of Khaos; Deadlock considers Ro-Jaws to understand the nature of Khaos even better than he does.
They say the men of Fomalhaut have to learn practically a new language to be understood at the Emperor's court on Trantor." Asimov would later substantially abandon using any real star names at all in the empire.
It received a Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation and three Saturn Award nominations for Best Science Fiction Television Series.
Certain minigames originated in Mario Artist: Polygon Studio, as explained by Goro Abe of Nintendo R&D1's so-called Wario Ware All-Star Team: "In Polygon Studio you could create 3D models and animate them in the game, but there was also a side game included inside.
Publication history Technovore first appears in Iron Man #294 (July 1993) and was created by Len Kaminski and Kevin Hopgood.
The holonovel's genre was changed when Mulgrew refused to work with horses and the crew realized shooting outdoors would exceed the show's budget.
In the episode "I Remember You", it is revealed that the Ice King—then, the human man named Simon Petrikov—befriended Marceline during the aftermath of the Mushroom War.
The wig used for Chitti's 2.0 look had a silver streak in the middle, made out of yak hair, while its leather jacket was designed by Vogt.
The Hellfire Club later awakens Apocalypse's long-hidden Harbinger from its deep sleep: originally a normal man, whom Apocalypse in the 19th century once left to incubate for 100 years.
Like the manga, Public Security Section 9 investigate the crimes of a genius hacker called the Puppet Master.
The evacuees eventually settle a newly terraformed Mars while some form the crew of a Ship of the Law to hunt down the home world of the killers, a quest described in the sequel, Anvil of Stars.
To prevent further destruction of their village, the ThunderCats put up signs around their village to let anyone who passes by know that the Micrits live there.
Now free of the machine Andromeda is able to access the safe that contains the copies of the original message with the instructions for building the computer which she burns so that the machine cannot be rebuilt.
They prove resistant to conventional military force, prompting humanity to construct massive mecha called Jaegers; each is co-piloted by two or more people who share the mental stress of piloting the machine through a mental link called the Drift.
TV pilot The 22-minute pilot differs from the comic mainly in that the characters are fleshed out with backstories.
After the battle, Zack and Lin’s bond grows stronger but their relationship comes to a halt after discovering that they are biologically incompatible.
Sherred, though in that story the public is unaware that the films are not conventional movie productions.
In the attraction, Biff Tannen (who stowed away in one of the institute's time machines that had recently visited 1955) steals the original DeLorean, prompting Doc to send the riders to the 8-passenger DeLorean and use it to go after Biff.
According to Mark Rademaker, over 1,600 hours have been spent on the conceptual artwork that he created.
Emma Taylor-Isherwood, Shadia Simmons and Robert Clark were each given Young Artist Award nominations in early 2003, although Taylor-Isherwood was placed in the supporting category, Simmons was elevated to lead, and Clark was considered a "guest actor".
References External links A Logic Named Joe title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
The 2006 children's novel The Doomsday Dust (book 4 in the Spy Gear Adventures series by Rick Barba) features a nanite swarm as the villain.
Lulu (Japanese: ルールー, Hepburn: Rūrū) is a young girl who made her appearance in WarioWare Gold and WarioWare: Get It Together!, coming from an isolated town called Luxeville.
Dick Reader (1997) Best Military Science Fiction of the 20th Century (2001) Minority Report (2002) Selected Stories of Philip K.
41 episodes were made in total, broadcast over three separate series between September 1980 and January 1983.
"Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy" During the "Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy" storyline, Peter decides to have Parker Industries get familiar with New U Enterprises' "New U" system, which is a program where replacement organs are cloned for those suffering from serious injuries.
The Janitor (portrayed by Tony Munch) is an enigmatic character who seems to understand the mysteries at Blake Holsey High.
Battle Hackers The most dangerous unit in the Algo Army, it is composed of the misfits, hotheads, and dropouts of the Machine Robo.
Additionally, the novel was shortlisted for several other awards, including: 2005 BSFA award 2006 Hugo Award for Best Novel 2006 Arthur C.
New items include the Korok Mask, which alerts the player when a Korok is nearby, and other themed cosmetics related to previous Zelda games.
It is then that Hale explains to Fletcher, the e-mail he supposedly received from Tankado was also in Strathmore's inbox, as Strathmore was snooping on Tankado.
In the Marvel 2099 imprint, Doom 2099 is a version of Doom who was transported to the year 2099 and seeks to conquer Earth to enforce order.
Touponce, Twayne Publishers (1991) The Unauthorized Trekkers' Guide to The Next Generation and Deep Space Nine by James Van Hise, HarperPrism (1995) == References ==
A fed up Farnsworth resolves to leave Earth and takes the rest of the crew with him to an abandoned planet to live in solitude.
After the Invincible War arc, Zack faces his strongest and most ruthless foe yet, Null—a formidable alien bounty hunter renowned for undertaking perilous missions that few would dare.
Despite this, he does his best to aid the knights in their efforts to protect the kingdom including allowing them to overhaul his RV into their Fortrex base.
Thunderbolt Ross – In a 2009 storyline in The Incredible Hulk, a Life Model Decoy of Ross is used to hide his identity as the Red Hulk.
Robots that are of low enough value can have the Third Law deleted; they do not have to protect themselves from harm, and the brain size can be reduced by half.
Although most of the main cast consists of circular bots, other characters are featured in other shapes, such as Olie's friend Billy Bevel and his family, who are square-shaped bots from Planet Cubey.
Eventually Ducky "saves civilization" by locating and turning off the only logic capable of doing this.
Among them there is the Omega Confederation (of which Earth is a member), the military Republic of Cassiopeia (led by General The Pest) and a powerful supercomputer which controls an army of robots.
Development According to an April 1991 issue of The One, Metal Mutant was originally subtitled Clash of the Tin Cans, and is inspired by the wargame board game BattleTech.
The Pip-Boy has been named one of the most iconic tools of Fallout and video games as a whole, and is praised for its design, as well as being compared with real wearable computers.
In March 2018, a "Feature Cut" of the series was announced, which would compile all episodes into a feature-length film.
When they near the Soviet bunker, soldiers immediately kill the boy, revealing him to be an android.
According to Tarantino, the most difficult part of making the film was "trying to take myself to a different place as a filmmaker and throw my hat in the ring with other great action directors", as opposed to the dialogue scenes he was known for.
Behavioral dilemmas resulting from conflicting potentials set by inexperienced and/or malicious users of the robot for the Three Laws make up the bulk of Asimov's stories concerning robots.
The events occur six to eight hundred years after the "Chel Debacle", depicted in the earlier novel Look to Windward which is set seventy-eight years after the events in Use of Weapons.
He leads the Geldarian army in a critical battle, turning the tide of the war and forcing the Kresh to retreat.
In the alternate universe depicted in Parts 7–9, Johnny Joestar marries Rina Higashikata with the Higashikata Family becoming a distinct branch of the Joestar family.
In 2015, Bethesda released a replica Pip-Boy as part of a limited run of collector's editions of Fallout 4.
In April 2021, Molina confirmed his involvement with film, calling it "wonderful" to reprise his role.
Several Yeti are taken back to England by Professor Travers (Jack Watling), who had come on the mission in the hopes of encountering the real Yeti.
In the Penrose diagram, an object traveling faster than light will cross the black hole and will emerge from another end into a different space, time or universe.
In Victory Gundam, the main character, Uso Ewin, has a Haro replica that he received from his father.
The film was based on the 1973 novel of the same name by Dean Koontz, and concerns the imprisonment and forced impregnation of a woman by an artificially intelligent computer.
Jake and Amara transfer to Scrapper before Gipsy Avenger collides into the Mega-Kaiju and kills it at the last second.
She also makes a possible cameo in the first season of the Slayers TV series (episode 17) and appears as Nama in the first six episodes of the fifth TV season, Slayers Evolution-R.
The Game Boy Color release features entirely different game play from its console and PC counterparts.
This process is referred to as "recycling", and is applied to everything from dirty dishes to outgrown children's clothes.
A high approval rating provides bonuses to production efficiency, while a low approval rating can drastically lower efficiency making it incredibly difficult to advance.
Plane cockpit integrated system displays, known as "glass cockpits", were introduced in the 1970s (originally in NASA Langley's Boeing 737 Flying Laboratory).
Additionally, Catbus's baby, Kittenbus, stars in a sequel to My Neighbor Totoro titled Mei and the Kittenbus.
Name Fangtian (方天) is a metaphorical term indicating that the weapon's top is symmetrical and rectangular in shape.
One reason authors may choose to write about time viewers rather than time machines is to circumvent the issue of temporal paradoxes.
He and his father Herc pilot Striker Eureka, "the strongest and the fastest" Jaeger with eleven Kaiju kills, and make up the Resistance's "go-to team".
Mutants who lost their powers after M-Day can regain them by dying and undergoing Krakoan resurrection.
Jillian Reynolds, who was coming off maternity leave, returned full-time as the program's weather anchor.
The amount of energy released is usually proportional to the total mass of the collided matter and antimatter, in accordance with the mass–energy equivalence equation, E=mc2.
Creation and development Original concept When the NES began to be overshadowed by its successor, the Super NES, Capcom designer Keiji Inafune embraced the improved graphics engine and developed a darker plot and character design compared to the original Mega Man franchise.
In a review of the iPhone version of the game, CNN writer Topher Kohan concluded, "Easy-to-use controls, great soundtrack, the ability to turn the sound off and get useful feedback via vibrate and fun in-game tidbits.
First, illustrates the classical philosophical problem of free will simulated within the framework of cybernetics: can a machine which is programmed to do something recognize this programming as something enforced onto it and rebel against it?
The two computers decide to simplify their war games by simulating the battles, with each killing the humans under their control that “die” in a simulation.
For Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021), Doctor Octopus' mechanical tentacles were created through CGI instead of puppetry.
Angry at Moon for joining the sibyls without him and curious about his offworld heritage, he travels to Carbuncle, Tiamat's capital.
And also the two leading roles were cast with really talented, attractive people who were not right for the parts.
The planet is by then not inhabited by human beings, and its desertified ecology is dominated by feral dogs.
Shantanu is in two minds when Professor Das, a quantum physics expert, tries to persuade him that it is a case of time travel and that they must fly back in time to the past via the same wormhole and prevent the hijacking by Mitra.
Three hero units are randomly selected from a pool unique to each empire and new hero units are available for purchase every fifty turns.
José is from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (thus the name "Carioca", which is a term used for a person born in Rio de Janeiro).
A common explanation involves the finite speed of light and astronomical distances; this method appears in the 1935 short story "The Space Lens" by Donald A.
After Daly leaves, Nanette finds a way to send a game invitation containing a message for help to the real-world Nanette.
The Danger Room is a fictional training facility appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Valiant Entertainment Reboot (2012) Bloodshot (Volume 3) Starting with the 2012 Valiant Entertainment relaunch, the Project Rising Spirit Program (PRS) is said to have regularly created different super-soldiers since the days of World War II.
Casting "USS Callister" stars Jesse Plemons as Captain Daly and Cristin Milioti as Lieutenant Nanette, both previous stars of Fargo.
The robotic "fauna", dubbed "necrosphere", has become part of the planet's ecology, and would require a disruption on a planetary scale to be destroyed.
However, the flight systems are destroyed as a result of the lightning strike that occurs at the end of the second film, leaving Marty to rely on the original combustion engine, which is also disabled.
This had the side effect of lessening focus on other minor plot lines, including that of the insectoid rachni.
Between this time and its conquest by Bel Riose in 200 F.E., Siwenna rebelled five times, eventually becoming independent.
Strathmore intends to keep Tankado's death a secret because if Tankado's partner finds out, he will upload the code.
Brainiac's distinctive forehead diodes are explained as "electric terminals of his sensory nerves" necessary for him to function.
However, the Superior Spider-Man defeats Overdrive and the rest of the Sinister Six using a power-dampening field.
References External links Detroit Steel at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original) Detroit Steel Armor at Marvel Wiki Detroit Steel (Doug Johnson III) at Marvel Wiki Detroit Steel at Comic Vine
Due to his mother's insistence and her disgust towards men who worked in common manual labor, Octavius was determined not to become like his father and threw all his efforts into his education, regularly scoring top marks.
Ostrander commented that "The wheels-within-wheels plotting is one of the most enjoyable reading experiences any SF fan can have.
This story is the origin of the term jaunt in the sense of personal teleportation (spelled "jaunte" in the book, from the surname, "Jaunte", of the first person to do so).
Amanda Tapping confirmed her appearance in this SG-1 film and the first Atlantis movie in September 2008, and Michael Shanks (Daniel Jackson) confirmed his and Richard Dean Anderson's participation in January 2009.
Bedford left $100,000 to cryonics research in his will, but even more was utilized by Bedford's wife and son in court defending both his will and his cryopreservation against arguments created by other relatives.
Something of a throwaway joke character, Overdrive made a few inconsequential appearances throughout Slott's run on The Amazing Spider-Man.
Both are using aliases, and Noah is prevented from learning Oracle's true identity only at the last possible moment through a stratagem devised by Oracle's allies.
Dr Vaseegaran, who is specialized in robotics, created Chitti after a decade of unsuccessful attempts and intensive research.
To get all the corrections right, physicists had to measure exact lengths of the cables and the latencies of the electronic devices.
The idea for the character was inspired by action figures, particularly Batman ones, which seemed to Mignola to be the same figurines with different paint jobs.
At the same time he attempted to interpret its elements: "fatal love", "love at first sight", jealousy, etc., based on the current knowledge in cybernetics.
Computo appears briefly when the Legion battles Superboy-Prime, the Time Trapper, and the Legion of Super-Villains.
Video games Teleportation as a game mechanic is common across various genres of video games, generally referred to as warps.
Frost, disillusioned by the Mothervine plot, frees Polaris's team, who make their way to the inner circle's meeting room.
The Wario series includes mostly platforming video games and minigame compilations, but also includes other genres.
Manga News felt that the main cast became more enjoyable when Subaru helps Kamui to abandon his catatonic status to face reality and become a more appealing hero.
In the series finale, "Endgame", a future Admiral Janeway tries to bring Voyager back to Earth using a Borg transwarp hub.
Evans also disliked the lack of a resolution to Detroit Steel and Iron Man's battle in Invincible Iron Man #33, though he later praised Iron Man #505, which he felt tied up that loose end.
He also playfully insults Kid Devil and Jaime Reyes after they attempt to talk to him, mocking Kid Devil over his recent loss of his abilities.
Merchandise Several records containing the musical score of Jetter Mars were released during the series run.
Achieving warp factor 1 is equal to breaking the light barrier, while the actual velocity corresponding to higher factors is determined using an ambiguous formula.
In The Web of Fear, which aired in 1968 and was set forty years after The Abominable Snowmen, the Yeti artifacts that Travers brought to England reawaken due to the return of the Great Intelligence.
TMA-2 sends a radio transmission towards a star system about 450 light years away in the 22nd century.
In June 2019 while ranking various X-Men teams in CBR, Scott Allan commented that it was Trinary's ability to control technology that helped Jean Grey's X-Men to be higher on the list.
In the afterlife, he is reunited with his deceased partner, who commends him for his commitment towards helping his comrades.
A player may also choose to create their own unique civilization by selecting from a number of different traits that correspond to military, science, diplomacy, hero units and so on.
When they reach the bunker, they discover it overrun: a crowd of David and Wounded Soldier robots attack, but Tasso destroys them with a very powerful hand grenade, stating that it was designed to destroy the robots.
In the Tezuka tradition, the series showcased many of his characters from his various manga works in different roles.
List of lists List of fictional aircraft List of fictional cars List of fictional ships List of fictional spacecraft Buses Buses often appear as settings, or sometimes even characters, in works of fiction.
When one of these criminals, the robotic pickpocket Quick Pick, helps her and Lion-O fight Captain Cracker, she makes him an Evil Chaser assistant.
Nikko escapes with the help of Lazarus before she is captured and taken to the OCP headquarters as a prisoner.
However, other replicators, such as the ones used by the aliens in the TNG episode "Allegiance", could create living things, including the brain's many trillions of dendritic connections where memory is stored.
Plot summary Arienrhod, the Snow Queen, has secretly implanted several Summer women with clones of herself, in the hopes of extending her rule past her ritual execution at the end of Winter.
The AM Radio Alarm Clock An off-white plastic vacuum-tube-based prototype amplitude modulation radiotelegraphic alarm clock.
Brigitta MacBridge Brigitta MacBridge, is a supporting character created in Italy by Romano Scarpa, first appearing in "The Last Balaboo" (Topolino #243, July 1960).
The Sarco would contain a touchpad and nitrogen, and once an activation code is entered, "the person is again asked if they wish to die".
In the Evan Currie novel, A Seed That Was Sown, the beginning of a new series subsequent to his Odyssey One series, makes use of a Matrioshka Brain as a central threat.
Morrow, both accomplished roboticists, decide to join forces and create a new android that will destroy the Justice League.
Prin testifies to the Pavulean parliament of his experience in Hell and attempts to convince them that it should be abolished.
However, Victor still attempts a rescue when he discovers Chase has Nico hostage, but is easily shut down when Chase asks him a rhetorical question designed to overload Victor's circuits.
The Martians' behaviour and personalities were initially developed while the puppeteers were messing around on set.
Jean Pierre Polnareff (ジャン・ピエール・ポルナレフ, Jan Piēru Porunarefu) A French traveler initially under Dio's control, Polnareff attacks Jotaro's group during their stay in Hong Kong before being defeated by Avdol.
Jason goes on another rampage, murdering Castillo, and is exposed to the time-space warping drive kernel of a spaceship, which splits him into his pre-cyborg self and Überjason.
Some vehicles that are not playable are sometimes ridden by the player required to shoot down enemy vehicles in a few games.
A couple of weeks later the succeeding advert shows the same five co-robots, known as the Herberts (Chief Herbert, Miss Herbert, Stunt Herbert, Clever Herbert and Baby Herbert), go to help Brian.
Lasseter said that "The animation of a lamp whose head is a light-source, moving around and self-shadowing the world around him, was a perfect matching of technology and subject matter." Luxo Jr.
Guinan later expanded his website into The History of Robots in the Victorian Era, which features other "turn-of-the-century robots, both real and imagined".
In her first appearance, she says she exclusively has telekinetic abilities, but a later flashback issue of JLA: Tomorrow Woman (1998) reveals that she also has telepathic abilities.
Over time, the foundation shed its crankish air, turning its attention from trying to block gravity to trying to understand it.
Shelley's 1818 novel Frankenstein is widely considered the first sci-fi novel, and it may be interpreted as the basic premise of technological advancement resulting in the creation of dangerous artificial beings.
They are impervious to fire, energy blasts and projectiles (ranging from shells to arrows), while also making the heroine immune to fall damage.
Known examples A number of Life Model Decoys with numerical designations have appeared in storylines.
Players represent Earth's UN forces, the military of Mars, the O.P.A., and Protogen Inc., each struggling to become the dominant power in the Solar System.
Issues Philosophical issues The main philosophical problem faced by mind uploading is the hard problem of consciousness: the difficulty of explaining how a physical entity such as a human can have qualia, phenomenal consciousness, or subjective experience.
Film An animated film, Robbi, Tobbi und das Fliewatüüt was released in 2016, directed by Wolfgang Groos, with Arsseni Bultmann as Tobbi and Alexandra Maria Lara as Sharon Schalldämpfer.
The bracelets are rarely broken, they can be broken only by magical weapons empowered by the gods themselves (such as Artemis's sword and Aegeus's dagger of Vulcan).
In the 1970s, he bought a château near Saumur in the Loire Valley and began preparing a steel freezer unit in the chateau's freezer for himself.
In 2024, The Wand Company released a replica of the Pip-Boy 3000 Mark V, shown in the Fallout TV series.
Greatest James Bond Films list of Vehicles, Gadgets, Love-making, etc., retrieved on January 5, 2008.
Colin Greenland reviewed Short Circuit for issue 85 of White Dwarf and stated that "there are good jokes, but the picture's so bland they hardly count".
Annie helps Frankenstein shift gears, due to his right arm being damaged in his fight with Perfectus.
Rowe, Ph.D., Professor of Forensic Medicine, New York University Medical School Terry Katz, Alcor Member Aubrey de Grey, Ph.D., Biomedical Gerontologist Gregory Fahy, Ph.D.
Living people who plan to be cryopreserved Deceased people who have been cryopreserved == References ==
The episodes are expected to be a few minutes long each and may eventually be broadcast on the Sci Fi Channel.
According to general relativity, however, it would not be possible to use a wormhole to travel back to a time earlier than when the wormhole was first converted into a time "machine".
Would it help to treat emulations as adolescents for a few years so that the biological creator would maintain temporary control?
According to director Ian Barry, the film had a troubled production with Barry commenting: Robo Warriors added a new dimension to Murphy’s Law; everything that could go wrong DID go wrong.
In 2017, scholar Takayoshi Yamamura noted that anime was produced in the collaboration with the JSDF Tokyo Provincial Cooperation Office.
Lawsuit Luxo ASA, the Norwegian company that manufactures Luxo lamps, sued Pixar and its parent company Disney in 2009 by claiming that Disney violated its trademarks by selling promotional lamps branded as the Luxo Jr.
Merchandise Kenner toys in 1990 featured an ED-209 figure in their RoboCop and the Ultra Police line.
The subgenre is notably popular in the West and Japan and was likely influenced by myths and legends associated with EVPs.
On the way to this goal, the player needs to solve puzzles and combat hostile lifeforms and enemy robots.
One of these is on a gorilla, who he names Monsieur Mallah and educates for almost a decade before making him his assistant.
In the present, the Brain tasks Madame Rouge with attacking the Doom Patrol and stealing Robotman's body for him as her initiation into the Brotherhood of Evil.
Such pressures released and out of control might split a planet, scattering lifeless bits and pieces through space.
This is celebrated in a world wide multi-day festival known as the Change and culminates in a hedonistic Mask Night.
In contrast, when players are playing stealthily, the background music will be relatively calmer and quieter.
Eventually, the human forces decide that there can be no other solution to the conflict than to commit genocide and destroy the Primes entirely.
He is killed when Bane (possessed by Smith) pre-emptively detonates an EMP, leaving the human crewmembers defenseless against the machines.
She was originally a romantic interest of Howard's, but the two don't hit it off and she falls for Leonard, much to the dismay of Howard, who they say will set him up with a friend to cheer him up.
However, the program was canceled on 24 June 2009, due to a lack of funding and shifting priorities at NASA.
She found him on the world of Lionheart, and with the help of a group of Avengers from another alternate timeline, managed to defeat Charnel by tearing it in two and sending the pieces to two different times.
One storyline even introduces Alpha's predecessor, Alpha One, who is more willing to resort to ruthless tactics in the name of victory where Zordon and Alpha 5 prefer a less ruthless approach.
Rin's family is wealthy (coming from a long military line), and lives in a palatial estate filled with numerous pieces of art.
The Autons' return in Terror of the Autons was done due to the success of Spearhead, with the production team requesting Holmes write a sequel.
The Second Directive (Protect the Innocent) is the ethical directive programmed: it establishes RoboCop must exercise reverence for life, de-escalation, duty to intercede, duty to rescue, non-lethality, and the presumption of innocence at all times.
The cards represent characters and events from the universe of The Expanse, each bearing key images from the show.
In the script, Octavius is the creator of the genetically altered spider from the first film, and gives Peter an antidote to remove his powers: this means when Octavius is dying with his tentacles, he wants to extract Spider-Man's spine to save himself.
She is also obsessed with her small breasts, and some stories actually deal with her rivalry with Shikijo (who has very large breasts), as well as her techniques and requests to VESPER for larger breasts.
Since their original introduction in comics, Life Model Decoys have been featured in various other Marvel-licensed products, including video games, television series, and films.
The visual effects and miniatures were created by Stargate Films under the direction of Sam Nicholson.
After Farnsworth inserts nanobots into the nearby pond to clean the water, the nanobots evolve rapidly into flora and fauna.
"We Like to Party!" (subtitled "The Vengabus" for its release as a single) is a song by Dutch Eurodance group Vengaboys.
George, who talked with a contact in the military, wrote, "Based on his and another expert's opinions, I am of the opinion that there is in fact no practical way of demonstrating inability to recall the bombers other than by the introduction of a device such as the CRM 114".
In September 2017, Louise O'Shea was appointed as CEO of Confused.com taking over from Martin Coriat who himself was appointed as chief executive of Admiral-owned French comparison website LeLynx.
Although not exactly the first mecha anime in history, the series has often been cited as being the first modern one.
The Souls of Pe and Nekhen, mentioned first in the Pyramid Texts, refer to the ancestors of the ancient Egyptian kings.
The term sant is a Sanskrit word "which differs significantly from the false cognate, 'saint'..." Traditionally, "sant" referred to devotional Bhakti poet-saints of two groups: Vaishnava and a group that is referred to as "Saguna Bhakti".
An event is a miracle only in the sense that it does not agree with our understanding of nature, or fit our picture of nature, or that it thwarts our expectations as to how the world should behave.
Religious law, such as canon law, includes both divine law and additional interpretations, logical extensions, and traditions.
See also Cambridge Ritualists Kalpa (ritual) Right conduct Notes References Abu-Zahra, JNadia (200).
Examples and Perspectives Neo-orthodox theologian Karl Barth defined dogmatic theology as the scientific exposition of the entire theoretical doctrine concerning God and God's external activity.
Jamaican Maroon Spirit Possession Language, spoken by Jamaican Maroons, the descendants of runaway slaves in the mountains of Jamaica, during their "Kromanti Play", a ceremony in which the participants are said to be possessed by their ancestors and to speak as their ancestors did centuries ago.
Early followers commonly referred to the manuscripts as "ancient records of the muddy waters" (泥海古記 doroumi kōki), though there were other contemporaneous interpretations such as "later record" (後記), "radiant story" (光輝), and "meritorious record" (功記).
This form also allows for a multiplicity of gods, as there is no contradiction in achieving omniscience by multiple entities.
Beliefs Yegor Kholmogorov outlined the principles of Nuclear Orthodoxy in a June 2007 lecture at the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics, where he stressed the Christian and eschatological nature of the ideology.
These were developed and transmitted verbally, from one generation to the next, for nearly two millenniums.
In his own inscription on the Ka'ba-ye Zartosht, Kartir states (KKZ 8–9) that he persecuted "Jews, Buddhists, Brahmins, Nasoreans (Judeo-Christians), Christians, 'Maktaks' (Mandaeans, Manichaeans?) and zandiks." Kartir's inscription is the earliest epigraphic evidence of the word zandik.
Abd al-Aziz Ibn Baz, the grand mufti of Saudi Arabia, supported the accords, while Yusuf al-Qaradawi opposed them.
Theological noncognitivism is the non-theist position that religious language, particularly theological terminology such as 'God', is not intelligible or meaningful, and thus sentences like 'God exists' are cognitively meaningless.
When one contrasts it to the popular heroic poem, such as Beowulf, one finds that they share certain common features.
For Joseph Glanvill rational fideism is the view that "Faith, and faith alone, is the basis for our belief in our reason.
The book is regarded as a pioneering critique of Christianity and Christian ethics by a modern Muslim scholar.
In other words, a person's good intent and good deed contribute to good karma and future happiness, while bad intent and bad deed contribute to bad karma and future suffering.
Traditional Jewish and evangelical scholars such as Collins explain this as a single author's variation in style in order to, for example, emphasize the unity and transcendence of God, who created the heavens and Earth by himself in the first narrative.
The cause of Copper's victory is that Copper has been demonstrated to be useful for all sorts of purposes, whereas Silver is merely for show or decoration.
Dating the Rede King Pausole, a character in Pierre Louÿs' Les aventures du roi Pausole (The Adventures of King Pausole, published in 1901), issued a similar pair of edicts: I.
The Epic of Gilgamesh in Sumerian literature features its hero Gilgamesh establishing his credibility as a leader after wrestling Enkidu.
Rule of Three Many Wiccans also promote the Law of Threefold Return, a belief that anything that one does will be returned to them threefold.
The location has recently rotated in a three-year cycle between sites in North America, Europe, and the rest of the world.
Concepts later associated with the Tree of Life draw in part on ideas found in Sefer Yetzirah, one of the earliest Jewish mystical texts, which presents creation as structured through sefirot and Hebrew letters functioning as organizing principles of cosmic order.
Lewis describes it, is one filled with awe, in which you "feel wonder and a certain shrinking" or "a sense of inadequacy to cope with such a visitant and our prostration before it".
Its line "Keep pure your highest ideal, strive ever towards it; let naught stop you or turn you aside, for mine is the secret door which opens upon the door of youth" is used as a maxim for ethical dilemmas.
Through séances, trances, and other forms of mediumship, these worlds can consciously communicate with each other.
Spiritualism influenced art, having an influence on artistic consciousness, with spiritual art having a huge impact on what became modernism and therefore art today.
The hadith below emphasizes that aniconism depends not only on what, but also on how things are depicted.
However, they are encouraged to not display them in private homes or in public, and to treat them with a special degree of reverence and respect.
These are, on the one hand, the giants and, on the other, the dwarfs who live in the shadows of the forests, umbragines...
In popular culture An invocation of Choronzon forms the basis for a 1980 episode of Hammer House of Horror entitled "Guardian of the Abyss", in which a cult called The Choronzon Society uses John Dee's scrying mirror to conjure Choronzon.
1 John 4:7: let us love one another: for love is of God; 1 John 4:12: No man hath beheld God at any time: if we love one another, God abideth in us, and his love is perfected in us.
Afterwards, captains were appointed over the soldiers to conduct the war, and to take-up positions at the fore of the battle, as well as at the rearward of military operations.
However, the deification of Ramesses II did incorporation an equation of himself as Amun, unlike in Tutankhamun's deification, but rather Ramesses II identified himself as a distinct person in Amun's likeness.
The "free soul" is said to leave the body and journey to the spirit world during sleep, trance-like states, delirium, insanity, and at death.
For example, the code of ethics of the American Institute of Certified Planners provides inadequate support for forecasters to avert this practice.
Jews who believed him to be the Messiah were originally called Nazarenes and later they were known as Jewish Christians (the first Christians).
There is also the expectation that Selassie will return for a day of judgment and bring home the "lost children of Israel", which in Rastafari refers to those taken from Africa through the slave trade.
Such incidences have resulted in legal repercussions, with notable cases occurring in 2007, 2011, 2012, and in 2018.
2011: Lahore On April 8, 2011, factory worker Mohammad Akhtar tore up a copy of the Bible at the gate of Sacred Heart Cathedral, Lahore.
Commonly it is found that the fleshly mind and impulse is quicker response than the response of forbearance.
Samuel Krauss wrote in 1901: As late as ten years ago it would have been absurd to speak about a Jewish art.
She also notes that one of her Thelemic informants questions the gendering of Nuit, calling it "merely a convenient metaphor".
However, they are all "subservient to the abstract, but active positive 'force of truth' [Ṛta]...which pervades the universe and all actions of the gods and humans." This force is sometimes mediated or represented by moral gods (the Āditya, e.g.
King Arthur's messianic return is a mythological motif in the legend of King Arthur, which claims that he will one day return in the role of a messiah to save his people.
Within the same work, Strabo compares Corinth to the city of Comana, confirming the belief that temple prostitution was a notable characteristic of Corinth.
University of California, Berkeley, "Messianity Makes the Person Useful: Describing Differences in a Japanese Religion in Brazil", presented at the Summer 2000 Asian Studies Conference Japan.
Theological determinism can also be seen as a form of causal determinism, in which the antecedent conditions are the nature and will of God.
Tukaram is believed to have been taken to Vaikuntha on Garuda, an event that is reported to have been witnessed by villagers.
Beliefs and practices There are three pillars of the religion, of which the key concept is Johrei, claimed to be a method of channeling divine light into the body of another for the purposes of healing.
Every paradigmatic system, whether one considers rationalism or empiricism, is based on axioms that are neither self-founding nor self-evident (see the Münchhausen trilemma), so it appeals to assumptions accepted as belief (in reason or experience respectively).
The word order is variable because Latin syntactical relationships are indicated by the inflexional endings, not by word order.
The common interpretation is that Lot offered his virgin daughters to the crowd as a means to sexually appease the crowd and protect his visitors from being raped.
Examples In terms of the attitude wherein an individual sees themselves as having to save another or a group of poor people, there is the notion that the action inflates their own sense of importance and discounts the skills and abilities of the people they are helping to improve their own lives.
Atonement "is closely associated to forgiveness, reconciliation, sorrow, remorse, repentance, reparation, and guilt".
These Amerindian temples were often placed on top of caves or subterranean springs, which were thought to be openings to the underworld.
Reception and influence This work became a model for similar works produced afterward, such as al-Farq bayna al-Firaq by 'Abd al-Qahir al-Baghdadi (d.
The manuscript was not cited by Tiendelenburg, Torstrik, Biehl, Apelt, and Ross in his critical editions of the treatise On the Soul.
There he gave his celebrated speech, the Gettysburg Address, wherein he hoped that the nation shall, "under God", have a new birth of freedom.
A meta-analysis of 60 studies on religion and crime concluded, "religious behaviors and beliefs exert a moderate deterrent effect on individuals' criminal behavior".
Table of Contents Themes The book contributes to interfaith dialogue by offering a critical examination of Christianity from a Muslim perspective.
This refusal stems from the belief that receiving from the created would engender gratitude aimed at the giver rather than God.
Multidimensional Is similar to a formalist approach, only differing in that it is more perceiving of how knowledge and disciplines were made among the specific labels given by the formalist aspect of this approach.
Judaism In the Hebrew Bible, God established the Mosaic covenant with the Israelites after he saved them from slavery in Egypt in the book of Exodus.
In law and society In the legal systems, the concept of atonement plays an important role with respect to criminal justice, where it is considered one of the primary goals of criminal rehabilitation.
On July 23, newly appointed Army chief General Sir Roland Walker said in a speech that the UK faced danger from an "axis of upheaval" with threats from an angered Russia, that China was intent on retaking Taiwan, and that Iran was likely to pursue nuclear weapons.
However, yoga guru Sadhguru, was overall critical about textbooks and other sources giving credit to figures like Madonna, and not Shiva (Adiyogi).
Other 20th century acts of apotheosis that Subin covers include that of Prince Philip and General Douglas MacArthur.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
Bhaduri Mahasaya – Maharshi Nagendranath pursued intense spiritual practices in solitude, especially Hathayoga and Pranayam, in a lonely cave in Monghyr and attained salvation there.
It serves as a handbook of theological views that might aid the reader in knowing what particular sects and individuals thought, and then what range of opinions was offered on the various questions debated within theology.
By the 1850s, advances in decipherment of ancient Egyptian scripts made it possible to fully translate ancient Egyptian texts.
See also Al Basty Hag in folklore Mare (folklore) Mora (mythology) Moroi (folklore) References External links Türk Mitoloji Sözlüğü, Pınar Karaca (Bastırık)
Triratna symbol The Triratna (Pali: ti-ratana or ratana-ttaya; Sanskrit: tri-ratna or ratna-traya) is a Buddhist symbol, thought to visually represent the Three Jewels of Buddhism (the Buddha, the Dhamma, the Sangha).
However, reciprocally, the relative sin or merit of a living individual could also affect that of past ancestors.
Desika insisted that the notion of divine perfection could only make sense in a framework that upholds a single god as the highest principle.
The Spiritualism religious movement in the nineteenth century espoused a belief in an afterlife where an individual's awareness persists beyond death.
Codex Ambrosianus 435 Codex Ambrosianus 435 is one of the most important manuscripts of the treatise.
See also 144,000 Christ of Europe Exceptionalism One true church Religiocentrism The Chosen One (trope) Theocracy White nationalism References Further reading Dave Dean Capucao (2010).
These texts are classified in five systems mentioned in one manuscript of Thikanesara (now at Khurai temple).
The God Worshipping Society of the Taiping Rebellion, which fused Anglo-American Protestant Christian and Chinese elements into a movement that focused the resentment of Han Chinese against the ruling Manchu Qing dynasty.
His categories are: igneous spirits, aerial spirits, terrestrial spirits, aquatic spirits, subterranean spirits, and tenebrous spirits.
These individuals come from diverse backgrounds, including artists, writers, occultists, scientists, musicians, and more, hailing from countries such as the United States, England, Canada, Germany, Australia, and Brazil.
Some evolve to a higher state, some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma.
Likewise, if the accused, unable to bear such tortures, admits to crimes which he has not committed, who, I ask you, has the responsibility for such an impiety?
To venerate a saint is to honour a person who has been identified as having a high degree of sanctity or holiness.
An etymological meaning of sophrosyne as "preservation of thoughtfulness" is proposed in Cratylus 411e.
The worst kind is desecration of the Blessed Sacrament, as it is the most important and most sacred item in Catholicism (far more than any relic or historical artifact whatsoever).
John 19:20 states that this was written in three languages – Hebrew, Latin, and Greek – and was put on the cross of Jesus.
This value, true love, is the aspiration and hope of all human beings and the manifestation of the best in human nature.
Bṛhatphala बृहत्फल or Vehapphala वेहप्फल (Vietnamese: Trời Quảng Quả; Chinese: 广果天; Tibetan: འབྲས་བུ་ཆེ་, Wylie: 'bras bu che; Thai: เวหัปปผลา or พรฺหตฺผลา – Devas "having great fruit".
In a bitheistic system, by contrast, where the two deities are not in conflict or opposition, one could be male and the other female (cf.
Śrutis has been variously described as a revelation through anubhava (direct experience), or of primordial origins realized by ancient Rishis.
35 Then he got up again and walked once back and forth in the house, and went up and stretched himself upon him.
Smith uses vervain to protect humans from vampires, in an extension of vervain's fabled magic-suppression powers against witches.
The Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius's Meditations details a philosophy of service and duty, describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration.
There is no formal canonization process in Hinduism, but over time many men and women have reached the status of saints among their followers and among Hindus in general.
It is a fundamental aspect of Islamic theology, and different Islamic schools (e.g., Ashʿarī, Māturīdī, and Salafī) have varying interpretations of ʿAqīda while agreeing on its foundational principles.
I do so with the burning desire that the message of God’s merciful love, proclaimed here through Saint Faustina, may be made known to all the peoples of the earth and fill their hearts with hope.
Ancient Greece Ancient Greek religion and its Roman equivalent have many figures who were born as humans but became gods, for example Hercules.
On the other hand, they are not to take the task of inspiring faith to the extent of hypocrisy or inappropriateness, for example, by taking on other professions apart from being a monastic, or by courting favours by giving items to the laypeople.
Nevertheless, there is no clear mention of legal punishments in the Quranic text regarding the apostasy.
Some prostitutes also viewed the action of sexual service and sexual pleasure as an act of devotion to the goddess of love, worshipping Aphrodite through an act rather than a physical dedication.
In that framework, adhikāra is seen as necessary so that a practitioner can obtain the prerequisite knowledge and states of mind necessary to properly absorb the more 'advanced' texts and gain the spiritual benefit thereof.
Brett Shults proposes that Pali texts may employ the Brahmanical motif of a group of three refuges, as found in Rig Veda 9.97.47, Rig Veda 6.46.9 and Chandogya Upanishad 2.22.3-4.
Pe (Greek Buto) was a Lower Egyptian town, not known for its Horus worship, but Ra had awarded the town to Horus after his eye was injured in the struggle for the throne of Egypt.
Within Jewish mysticism and folklore, particularly in Kabbalistic traditions, protective practices were also used to ward off these malevolent spirits.
(Conditions for formation of uniate orthodox groups.) Authority of the Ecumenical Councils for faith and life.
Some of these, notably at Naaran in the West Bank, have had the living figures removed, leaving inanimate symbols such as the Temple menorah intact.
But he proposes an ingenious method to tackle the question: Just as we can come to know the properties and operations of something through scientific demonstration, i.e.
Reception The impact of Hartley's concept was analysed for English literature, and influences can be found above all in Samuel Coleridge and William Wordsworth, e.g.
When the Krotonians, spurred by Madame Blavatsky, found Hollywood suffocating their peace-filled theosophies, they decided to move to Ojai California and that is where they have been ever since.
While his more traditional work was well received, two of his works from the campaign generated considerable controversy.
History Nuclear Orthodoxy was first formulated in the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union among Eurasianist political circles.
They sometimes hurl stones at women who do not dress according to their strict dress code and have even broken into a woman's house and beat her up, because they did not approve of her behavior.
Moral goodness is a necessary condition of holiness, even though moral goodness alone does not suffice to make a person holy.
The belt dates from circa 1530 and is made of cotton, white and red snail shells, black seeds, pearls, glass, and obsidian.
The genre of lives of the saints was introduced in the Slavic world in the Bulgarian Empire in the late 9th and early 10th century, where the first original hagiographies were produced on Cyril and Methodius, Clement of Ohrid and Naum of Preslav.
The Fates, primary antagonists of season five of the superhero television series Legends of Tomorrow The Fates/Moirai, referenced in Edward P.
Lincoln's maxim and philosophy were, 'What is to be, will be, and no prayers of ours can arrest the decree.' He never joined any church.
The term is used in the Indonesian and Malaysian languages with very similar meanings and spellings, i.e.
They cite the billions of dollars in arms sales to Venezuela and the construction of Iranian nuclear facilities as well as the rejection of added sanctions on Iran.
Polkinghorne argues that an apparently simple event like boiling water, where a small quantity of liquid changes into a large quantity of steam (a phase transition) would seem miraculous to someone who had not seen it every day.
His suggested explanation, however, did not deal with the question of why such a belief became central to the religion.
In the twentieth century, theologians such as Paul Tillich described God as the "ground of being" rather than a being among others, influencing post-theistic and existential theology.
The fourth section sets forth the Pope as the supreme judge in matters of faith and morals, though making the concessions that the Pope may err in questions of fact known by ordinary human knowledge and when he speaks as a mere unofficial theologian.
Sacred mysteries may be either: Religious beliefs, rituals or practices which are kept secret from the uninitiated.
Names Atonement and atoning both derive from the verb atone, from the Middle English attone or atoon (meaning "agreed" or "at one").
Okada's teaching is represented by a number of his works, such as Foundation of Paradise and Johrei: Divine Light of Salvation, which has been edited and translated by the Society of Johrei, an offshoot of COWM.
"The Commonitory of Vincent of Lérins, for the antiquity and universality of the catholic faith against the profane novelties of all heresies".
Judaism The first mention of the fear of God in the Hebrew Bible is in Genesis 22:12, where Abraham is commended for putting his trust in God.
In rejecting Kamwana, his former followers referred to Chilembwe as American, and an African minister at Blantyre Mission regarded his views on race as American, not a description with millennial significance.
The modern formulation was popularized by Thomas à Kempis' devotional book The Imitation of Christ written in early 15th century.
Etymology The term orthopraxy comes from the Greek orthos, meaning "straight", and praxis, meaning "action".
Almost in the Index In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, of his own initiative, placed the first volume on a new edition of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying that the pope had direct temporal authority over the whole world.
Divine law is any body of law that is perceived as deriving from a transcendent source, such as the will of God or gods – in contrast to man-made law or to secular law.
The phoenix, identified as a controller of winds, was called "Messenger of Di" (史風) and received its own sacrifices.
In parapsychology and Spiritualism, an apport is the alleged paranormal transference of an article from one place to another, or an appearance of an article from an unknown source that is often associated with poltergeist activity or séances.
Content The Cave of Treasures belongs to the genre of "rewritten Bible" that recounts biblical history from the creation of the world to the life of Christ within a different framework; in this case, a Syriac one.
This consequently works in a manner that promotes future loyalty of the vassal since the suzerain had previously done favors for them.
In 2021, the Wauwatosa building was listed as among the five most haunted places in Wisconsin by Milwaukee Magazine.
The Je Khenpo is also responsible for many important liturgical and religious duties across the country.
As spiritual and mystic traditions developed, the Jewish concept of the soul underwent a number of changes.
He believed that the "thousand-year kingdom" began with the birth of Christ, but that the thousand years should not be understood literally.
Gallery Biblical scenes INRI examples See also Christ the King Ichthys Names and titles of Jesus in the New Testament Titulus Crucis References Notes Citations === Sources ===
The most important site is located in Malhargadh village in Guna district where Taran Svami spent his final years and where his last rites were performed.
Imperial Rome and Christian Triumph: Oxford History of Early Non-Pauline Christianity 1998 ISBN 0-19-284201-3 Gaus, Andy.
The council did, however, retain the prohibitions on eating blood or meat containing blood, and meat of animals that were strangled, and on fornication and idolatry, sometimes referred to as the Apostolic Decree.
When the rime and the blowing heat met, the liquid melted and dropped, and this mixture formed the primordial being Ymir, the ancestor of all jötnar.
The recurrence of the nundinae was also considered a dies festus and as such nefas by some Roman scholars as Julius Caesar and Cornelius Labeo, because on it the flaminica dialis offered the sacrifice of a goat to Jupiter in the Regia.
Since we agree in rejecting without reservation the teaching of Eutyches as well as of Nestorius, the acceptance or non-acceptance of the Council of Chalcedon does not entail the acceptance of either heresy.
Extraordinary means are those "which cannot be obtained or used without excessive expense, pain, or other inconvenience, or which, if used, would not offer a reasonable hope of benefit." They involve a disproportionately great burden on the patient or community.
According to Hayyim ben Joseph Vital, women could not become dybbuks because their souls did not participate in gilgul.
The conversation begins when two British students ask Neuburg about a version of the story in which Crowley turned him into a zebra and sold him to a zoo.
Rizal meant by "blind faith" was, since it was impossible to comprehend God as He was plus supra, he could have only hinged his belief on the fact that "God was God." As such, he did not deny nor did he accept the religious explanations of the mortals around him.
Bede's commentary (written around 705) was the most important commentary since Ticonius and played a leading role until the time of Joachim of Fiore (d.
In Introvigne's opinion, the most significant portraits of the mahatmas "in Theosophical history" were painted by Schmiechen.
For these reasons the scarab was seen as a symbol of this heavenly cycle and of the idea of rebirth or regeneration.
This development from the relative or habitual to the absolute is evident in the terms ethics and morality as well, both being derived from terms for "regional custom", Greek ἦθος and Latin mores, respectively (see also siðr).
The identification of the Roman Catholic Church with the Whore of Babylon is kept in the Scofield Reference Bible (whose 1917 edition identified "ecclesiastical Babylon" with "apostate Christendom headed by the Papacy").
Museum no.: CBS 08322 Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
Other uses The term 'body of light' is also used in Tibetan Buddhism, particularly in the Dzogchen and Mahamudra traditions.
People from neighbouring villages were invited to help celebrate this ritual, in which men in the village then take shots at the cub with blunted ceremonial arrows, until the time came for it to be slaughtered.
At the time of its establishment, it was the first school dedicated to the teaching of Spiritualism, and as of 2025, it remains the only such institution in the world.
A cake of light contains flour, honey, Abramelin oil, olive oil, beeswing, and bodily fluids such as semen, menstrual blood, vaginal fluids, or a mix thereof.
Hence Pope Paul VI's papal encyclical of 3 September 1965 on the Eucharist was titled, from its opening words, Mysterium fidei.
Each sephira and path is assigned various ideas, such as gods, cards of the Tarot, astrological planets and signs, elements, and so forth.
Yantra In esoteric traditions such as tantra, particularly the Sri Chakra tradition, the main icon (yantra) has nine interlocking triangles.
Other contextual meanings of the term include "race, caste, family, fertility symbol, grain or seed".
One study found that praying for a friend or thinking positive thoughts about that person every day for four weeks increases the chances of forgiving that friend or partner, which leads to a better relationship.
Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society.
Noll writes, "At least early on, Lincoln was probably also a Universalist who believed in the eventual salvation of all people." Lincoln was often perplexed by the attacks on his character by way of his religious choices.
Critics argue that forgiveness interventions may increase negative affect because they try to inhibit the person's feelings towards the offender.
Canonization The Orthodox belief is that God reveals saints through answered prayers and other miracles.
Similarly to many religions, the Ainu also gave prayers and offerings to their ancestors in the spirit world or afterlife.
Though kangaroo meat was once unpopular with modern Australians, it has become a lot more popular in recent years due to its reputation as a low-fat and low-emission meat, and can be found in most supermarkets.
In an interview conducted in September 1980, three months before his death, Lennon told Playboy journalist David Sheff: "People always got the image I was an anti-Christ or antireligion.
They argue that the conditional promise of 1 Kings 9:4–7 seems to undercut this unconditional covenant.
§ Placenta origins) that the concept of the supernatural fylgja cannot be completely dissociated from this secondary meaning; in fact, there may well be a connection to the hamr, referring to the skin used by shapeshifters (hamramr, cf.
In contrast to supersessionism, Latter Day Saints do not dispute the "chosen" status of the Jewish people.
In contrast, Calvin believes that the practice of praying to saints is a demonstration of "distrust, because they are either not contented with Christ as an intercessor or have altogether robbed him of this honour".
'Systematic theology', on the other hand, is broader in compass than dogmatics, if the latter is taken to be concerned with teaching which has acquired ecclesial definition and approval, since systematic theology occupies itself more generally with Christian claims about reality.
Earlier excavation reports predominantly referenced magnetic north, according to current Hokkaido data.
Nagendranath Bhaduri – Bhaduri Mahasaya served as an Acharya of the Baluhati branch of the Adi Brahmo Samaj.
Ahmad al-Tayyib, the Grand Imam of al-Azhar, highly praised the book by saying that it has several words that deserve to be written in gold water.
Within Thelema, Ra-Hoor-Khuit is called 'Lord of the Aeon' (which began in 1904 according to Thelemic doctrine), and 'The Crowned and Conquering Child'.
Hart continues to say that, in other funerary papyri, the pelican can predict safe travel for a dead person in the Underworld.
Randhir Singh, founder of the AKJ, stated: Without fully knowing the Rehat [practice] of a Gursikh, another Gursikh should not accept food from their hands.
Nyelvrokonaink kultúrája és hagyományai [The book title means: “Uralic peoples / Culture and traditions of our linguistic relatives”; the chapter title means “The belief system of Uralic peoples and the shamanism”] (in Hungarian).
Other examples include Makoto Yukimura's Vinland Saga, a manga featuring the Viking invasion and rule of England, where the character Askeladd, a Norwegian-Welsh half-blood, recounts the tale of his ancestor King Artorius and his glorious return from Avalon to save Britannia.
The English translations below are from Gelbert (2011), while the Mandaic transliterations are derived from Gelbert (2011, 2021).
Participants were led to believe they were assisting in an unrelated experiment in which they had to inflict electric shocks on another person.
On the other hand, Sun Ho, a Singaporean Christian pastor and former singer, praised Madonna's music contribution in the field of dance music in 2006.
Mendenhall, covenants were originally established as legal customs and then later were replicated in the field of religion.
Rabbi Pini Dunner discusses that humility is to place others first; it is to appreciate others' worth as important.
It has been pointed out that "The laws governing such matters as hospitality, the rights of the heads of households, marriage, blood-feuds and payment of damages find precise echoes in Vedic India and ancient Greece and Rome".
Biblical and rabbinic sources tend to emphasize covenantal and ethical interpretations of the holiness of the People of Israel.
In times past, cruel practices were commonly used by legitimate governments to maintain law and order, often without protest from the Pastors of the Church, who themselves adopted in their own tribunals the prescriptions of Roman law concerning torture.
The Uruguayan diplomatic representative studied at the Colegio y Liceo del Sagrado Corazón (Padres Jesuitas) in Montevideo and also attended the Instituto de Estudios Humanísticos y Clásicos de la Compañía de Jesús.
See also Sacred trees and groves in Germanic paganism and mythology Ten realms Notes and citations == References ==
Shrines and feast days, when authorized by the church, are typical signs of approval since they are part of devotion to private revelation.
Christians also argue that the names Zerubbabel and Shealtiel in the two lineages have different parents and children and therefore are just common names that do not refer to the same people.
He comes to desire Sauron's power for himself, so he betrays the Istari and tries to take over Middle-earth by force, creating an army in his fastness of Isengard.
Public religion in both Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome involved a complex interplay between civic life and sacred presence.
Ceremonies mainly consist of making libations of sake, saying prayers, and offering willow sticks with wooden shavings attached to them.
At the weigh-in before the first Ali-Liston fight, Ali had shouted: "It is prophesied that I should win!
It refers to an apostate false queen, a former "bride" who has been unfaithful and who, even though she has been divorced and cast out because of unfaithfulness, continues to falsely claim to be the "queen" of the spiritual realm.
The Greek Septuagint and some later Christian translations, following the application of Isaiah 7 in Matthew 1, use the word "virgin".
Several chapters and a photograph in the book reference Leila Waddell, whom Crowley called Laylah, and who, as Crowley's influential Scarlet Woman, acted as his muse during the writing process of this volume.
Reuss died in 1923 without naming a successor, and Crowley was subsequently elected and ratified as Outer Head of the Order in a Conference of Grand Masters in 1925.
Christian religion and ethics are the primary topic of the sermons with emphasis on marriage, repentance, hardening the heart, charity, pride, wisdom, and compassion.
Moroni, the last prophet of the book, wrote about love: But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him.
It is similar to the concepts of zhōngyōng (中庸) of Chinese Confucianism and sattva (सत्त्व) of Indian thought.
Until 1952, it was wrongly labeled as an African fetish, but scholars have confirmed that it is Taíno from the early 16th century and exhibits elements of Caribbean, European, and African artistic influences.
34 Then he went up and lay on the child, putting his mouth on his mouth, his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands.
Christianity The Mosaic covenant or Law of Moses, which Christians generally call the "Old Covenant" in contrast to the New Covenant, has played an important role in the shaping of Christianity.
However, opponents of the anthropic argument argue that it is flawed and does not necessarily prove the existence of God.
Local Catholics counter-protested in support of the statue by praying the rosary in front of the statue.
Evidence indicates he occasionally faked signatures as a way to gain authority from a "guide from the past"; however, these signatures were dated beyond the lifetimes of the deceased.
The Panthoibi Naheron (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯦꯔꯣꯟ), also known as the Panthoibi Naheiron (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯩꯔꯣꯟ), or the Panthoibi Naherol (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯦꯔꯣꯜ), or the Panthoibi Naheirol (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯩꯔꯣꯜ) (transl.
Contrary to misconceptions, meekness is not synonymous with weakness; rather, it embodies the gentleness of the strong, who exercise control over their strength.
Peters, divine laws are typically perceived as superior to man-made laws, sometimes due to an assumption that their source has resources beyond human knowledge and human reason.
At the same time, remission of the temporal punishment for the pilgrims' sins is granted, known as an indulgence.
See also Apophatic theology Conceptions of God Fideism Ietsism Ineffability Münchhausen trilemma Mysticism Newton's flaming laser sword Problem of religious language Thought-terminating cliché Eliminative materialism References Bibliography == External links ==
The Middle Persian term engendered the better-attested Arabic زنديق zindiq, with the same semantic field but related to Islam rather than Zoroastrianism.
Al-T̲h̲aʿlabī, however, related, closely following the Gospel of John: "Lazarus [Al-ʿĀzir] died, his sister sent to inform Jesus, Jesus came three (in the Gospel, four) days after his death, went with his sister to the tomb in the rock and caused Lazarus to arise; children were born to him".
Upon the return of Jesus Christ, all people will be resurrected, the righteous in a first resurrection and the unrighteous in a second, later resurrection.
Mannhardt extensively studied mostly representations of spirits associated with the harvest and the broader category, spirits of vegetation, representing the annual cycle of dying and resurrecting vegetation.
Asclepius was "the one who leads and controls all things, the savior of the whole world, and the guardian of mortals." Helen of Troy was worshiped as a heroine in several parts of the ancient world during the early historical epoch.
The wider area around Jerusalem, or the Holy Land, is referred to in Arabic and in Islamic sources as al ard al-muqaddasa (also Bilād al-Muqaddasa), as it is full of shrines and connections to prophets and saints.
"Evil has accumulated for innumerable generations through the inheritance of sins", and heaven has sent the Celestial Master to save humanity.
Much more the behavior of beings with free will, then they disobey God's orders, harming others or putting themselves over God or others, is considered to be evil.
Animal analogues The classical Greek word used to translate meekness was also that for a horse that had been tamed and bridled.
It means "hearing, listening", a call to "listen to a speech", any form of communication that is aggregate of sounds (news, report, rumour, noise, hearsay).
This ritual caused injury to bystanders, and to Pope Paul VI himself while striking down the door, so for the Great Jubilee of 2000, Pope John Paul II simplified the rite considerably.
The severity of the transgression was measured by three different factors and rated on a scale of severity.
Despite the controversy surrounding some of his work, Vereshchagin continued painting battles and their aftermaths until his death during the Russo-Japanese War.
Elysium is labeled a land for the blessed, whereas those who committed horrible deeds were sent to the deepest part of the underworld, Tartarus.
Meditation can train the mind to be sensitive and flexible, which results in developing and maintaining a state of composure, peace, and balance.
Leadbeater (Theosophist), suggesting that for a living human to experience the spirit world is a blissful, meaningful and life-changing experience.
The Doctrine of Tenrikyo, which systematically summarizes Tenrikyo's beliefs and practices, was published in 1949.
Rousseau's romantic fallacy that it is society which corrupts man, not man who corrupts society, places a flattering gauze between ourselves and reality.
The Baháʼí Faith continues a tradition found in Islam of not using depictions in art of people considered a Manifestation of God.
Judaism In Hebrew, Ahava is the most Commonly used term for both interpersonal love of family and love of God.
The Formula of Concord rejects antinomianism in the fifth article, On the Law and the Gospel and in the sixth article, On the Third Use of the Law.
One of the better-known uses of this motif is by Mike Barr and Brian Bolland, who has Arthur and his knights returning in the year 3000 to save the Earth from an alien invasion in the comic book series Camelot 3000 (1982–85).
Millenarian movements The Andean Taki Unquy movement of the 1560s and 1570s, opposing the diseases arriving with the Spanish conquerors.
They are found in Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and other Caribbean islands.
Lewis references the term in many of his writings, but specifically describes it in his book The Problem of Pain and states that fear of the numinous is not a fear that one feels for a tiger, or even a ghost.
For this reason the Magician will anoint first the top of his head before proceeding to consecrate the lower centres in their turn (...) It is the pure light translated into terms of desire.
This was translated by George Aaron Barton in 1918 and first published as "Sumerian religious texts" in Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, number two, entitled "An Old Babylonian Oracle".
This "hierarchy of spiritual leaders" she calls the "Masters of the Wisdom," and they all report to and work with Christ, Jesus of Nazareth.
However, the redemption of man is not considered to have taken place only in the past, but continues to this day through theosis.
Barton suggests Enlil then appears and takes Enki's axe, presumably to chop cedars for the building he proceeds to guard.
Historian Michael Bronski says that the Friend would not have been called transgender or transvestite "by the standards and the vocabulary" of the time, but has called the Friend a "transgender evangelist".
Booth," and according to Michael Brooke of BFI Screenonline, "combines elements of the previous year's The Unfortunate Policeman with a special effects sequence.
The name of Lake Manitoba (for which the Canadian province of Manitoba is named) derives from the area called manitou-wapow, or "strait of the Manitou" in Cree or Ojibwe, referring to the strange sound of waves crashing against rocks near the Narrows of the lake.
Other authorities also permit a king to initiate a war, since a king is the supreme commander of the army.
The temple rituals are as follows: The follower enters the temple and bows to the altar as the sign of respect then recites three verses drawn from Taran Svami's texts known as Tatva Patha or Tatva Mangal in front of the altar.
–Targum Onkelos Man as nephesh The LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground[adamah], and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life[nishmat ḥayim]; and man became a living soul[lenephesh ayyah].
The messiah complex is a mental state in which a person believes they are a messiah or prophet and will save or redeem people in a religious endeavour.
The first 25 lines were published by Van Dijk in 1965 but a translation of the entire text has still not been made.1 The large surface of the earth introduced herself; then she has embellished herself as with a bardul-garment.
Concepts of universal atonement can transcend all religions, as in unlimited atonement, the doctrine that the atonement is unlimited in extent, and universal reconciliation, the doctrine that all will eventually come to salvation.
Psychiatrist Thomas Szasz wrote in The Second Sin (1973): "If you talk to God, you are praying; if God talks to you, you have schizophrenia.
See also Lazarus of Bethany, patron saint archive Corpse decomposition Lazarus Saturday Ministry of Jesus Panagia Alexiotissa, Patras Seven signs in the Gospel of John Category:Paintings of the Resurrection of Lazarus Notes References == External links ==
Housman a writer in "a blasphemous, antinomian, 'cynical' strain", meaning defiant of arbitrary societal rules.
By the time of Cicero, sacrilege had adopted a more expansive meaning, including verbal offences against religion and the undignified treatment of sacred objects.
Book 8 Book 8 (10 in the Al-Saadi edition) deals briefly with creation and evil, and contains Manda ḏ-Hayyi's warnings against Ruha.
The yoni iconography is typically represented in the form of a horizontally placed round or square base with a lipped edge and an opening in the center usually with a cylindrical lingam.
In the New Testament, the Greek word traditionally translated "soul" (ψυχή) "psyche", has substantially the same meaning as the Hebrew, without reference to an immortal soul.
Following his completion of the painting, Vereshchagin dedicated his work "to all great conquerors, past, present and to come".
See also Common law Customary law Hadith Jurisprudence Revelation Uncodified constitution Citations and notes References Finnegan, Ruth H., A Note on Oral Tradition and Historical Evidence, in History and Theory 10 (1970), 195–201.
For instance, the Babylonian creation story from 1250 BCE follows the same blueprint as virtually every story of redemptive violence put forward today.
A female police assistant physically examined Rothe and discovered 157 flowers as well as oranges and lemons hidden in her petticoat.
Etymology The word saint derives from the Latin sanctus, meaning "holy" or "consecrated", and entered English through Old French seint and Middle English saint, retaining its meaning as a holy person and historically used to refer to individuals regarded as holy.
Expulsion In traditional Jewish communities, the concept of the dybbuk served as a socially acceptable way of expressing unacceptable urges, including sexual ones.
These translations, in their attempt to reconcile and merge the two Syriac recensions, represent different interpretive traditions of the same work.
Athenaeus also alludes to the idea that many of Aphrodite’s temples and sanctuaries were occupied by temple prostitutes.
Rationalist Descartes uses the physiological term "animal spirits" to refer to corpuscles composed of the "most vivid and subtle" parts of the blood, which move the body as they circulate from brain to muscle (Discours de la méthode, V) (1637).
Salvation therefore is described as the realization that all finite reality is essentially dependent on the Supreme.
They recommend a learned and respected monk ordained in accordance with the Druk-lu who possesses the nine qualities of a spiritual master, and is accomplished in ked-dzog (spiritual development and completion), to the King of Bhutan.
271, same edition): "Once at Jerusalem, she was held back from entering the church with the other pilgrims by an invisible and irresistible force.
From the anthroposophy teachings of Rudolf Steiner, "Pneumatosophy" (wisdom of the spirit) can be seen as part of his teachings on spiritual science and approaches the human spirit in terms of truth and error and the meaning and the effects of imagination, intuition, and inspiration.
Mahayana Buddhism has formal liturgical practices for venerating saints, along with very specific levels of sainthood.
Takashima Ken-ichi and Li Fa further illustrated it through two sentences in which a single ritualized process was used to appease both "winds" and locusts.
The Bible was gifted to President Lincoln by the Citizens Volunteer Hospital of Philadelphia on June 16, 1864.
Symbols, amulets and omens Insects have often been taken to represent qualities, for good or ill, and accordingly have been used as amulets to ward off evil, or as omens that predict forthcoming events.
Their guilt is derived not from a feeling of rejection by deity, but by a self-rejection as they become aware of the gulf which separates them from the ideals of the Buddha.
Consumption of any sort of rodent, or material originating from rodents, is forbidden by Judaism and Islam.
According to the Manifesto, OSOGD teaches "a progressively tiered system of spiritual development designed to invoke the Higher or Divine Genius latent in every human being".
Latria, hyperdulia, protodulia and dulia Christian theologians have long adopted the terms latria for the type of worship due to God alone, and dulia and proskynesis for the veneration given to angels, saints, relics and icons.
Monist approaches avoid the objections to dualism by rejecting the idea that mind and body are fundamentally distinct.
The Denkard, a 9th-11th century work of Zoroastrian tradition, attributes this systemization of doctrine—in which certain beliefs and traditions were seen as definite while others were considered unacceptable—to an initiative by Tansar, high priest under Ardashir I, the founder of the dynasty.
In his Lectures on the History of Philosophy, Hegel continues: “in recent times no other philosophy has been so much offended against as this [sc.
Arkansas The epistemic conception of the miraculous does not agree with the definition given in the famous McLean v.
Argument from reason Philosophers and scientists including Victor Reppert, William Hasker, and Alvin Plantinga have expanded on the "Argument from reason" and credit Lewis with first bringing the argument to light in Miracles.
On education Johnson responds to Jenyns's final argument, that the ends justify the means when it comes to keeping the poor uneducated, by saying: I am always afraid of determining on the side of envy or cruelty.
He further criticized Aristotle's idea whereby every unique soul requires the existence of a unique source, in this case the heart.
It is an official publication for Babes of the Abyss, but is recommended even to beginners as highly suggestive." The book consists of 93 chapters, each of which consists of one page of text.
While some may think of equanimity as dry neutrality or cool aloofness, mature equanimity produces a radiance and warmth of being.
Mythical theology is practiced by story-tellers, especially poets, based on narratives (mythoi) pertaining to divine matters.
The punishment for apostasy includes state enforced annulment of his or her marriage, seizure of the person's children and property with automatic assignment to guardians and heirs, and death for the apostate.
Is there any healer who can cure me?" Namungbi suggests the name of Wangbaren Khana Chaoba (Wangpulen), the water god of the southern valley.
He attended Colegio y Liceo del Sagrado Corazón (Jesuits) for his secondary education, later joining the Novitiate of the Society of Jesus in Córdoba, Argentina, where he studied literature and humanities at the Institute of Letters and Classical Humanities.
Some Hindu saints are given god-like status, being seen as incarnations of Vishnu, Shiva, and other aspects of God, sometimes many years after their deaths.
Myths of the Creation of Man and the Origin of Death in Africa: a Study in Igbo Traditional Culture and Other African Cultures.
Choronzon is deemed to be held in check by the power of the goddess Babalon, inhabitant of Binah, the third sephirah of the Tree of Life.
The "ethereal horse" in the painting, which may be Pegasus, rejecting the riders who attempt to reach the stars, again signals the cessation of the myth.
This conception implied, as in the biblical parable Lazarus and Dives, that there is considered a greater distance between good and bad spirits than between the dead and the living.
In ancient Roman religion and myth, the Parcae (singular: Parca) were the female personifications of destiny who directed the lives (and deaths) of humans and gods.
When in Genesis 1:26 God says "Let us make man", the Hebrew word used is adam; in this form it is a generic noun, "mankind", and does not imply that this creation is male.
In developed animism the transformation of a demon or god leads to its anthropomorphism, humanization.
Holy Although the English language terms sacred and holy are similar in meaning, and they are sometimes used interchangeably, they carry subtle differences.
People subscribing to popular monotheistic religions for instance, might fear Hell and divine judgment, or submit to God's omnipotence.
He also described this attainment as a possible and in fact a necessary step for all who truly followed his path.
Christianity Meekness, as understood in the Christian perspective, finds its embodiment in the actions and teachings of Jesus Christ.
This section also includes an "Interlude", which is a humorous exposition on the magical interpretations of popular nursery rhymes, such as Old Mother Hubbard and Little Bo Peep.
We have often emphasized that the human being does not only consist of the visible parts that can be seen with the eye, but that the human being also consists of invisible, supersensible members.
Beginning in the late 19th century, the seven rays appeared in a modified and elaborated form in the teachings of Theosophy, first presented by Helena Blavatsky.
The former found himself the object of worship by inhabitants of the island of Tanna; in an example of "mutual mythmaking", the British government encouraged such adulation, even going so far as to send autographed portraits to the prince's acolytes.
As a result, some ages are filled with prosperity and peace due to common goodness, whereas other eras are filled with suffering, dishonesty and short lifespans.
The Whore's apocalyptic downfall is prophesied to take place in the hands of the image of the beast with seven heads and ten horns.
Hartley calls this reorienting transformation the “annihilation of self.” This “annihilation” is not quasi-mystical obliteration; rather, it is a reorientation toward, or discovery of, a higher self of sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense.
He said, "But you have printed it in the plainest language." I said that I could not have done so because I did not know it.
This phrase appears in the Qur'an a number of times, where it is thought to refer in some cases to the angel Gabriel.
Civil in the 1960s from 24 manuscripts but it is currently the least studied of the disputation poems and a full translation has not yet been published.
The Ambrosian Bible or Ambrosian Tanakh of 1236 by Jacob ben Samuel and Joseph ben Kalonymus is one of the earliest Ashkenazic illuminated manuscripts and biblical codices.
But after a night in prayer and experience of a locution from the figure of Christ crucified, he decided to stay on.
Probabilists reply to this argument that liberty is always in possession, since law and obligation presuppose liberty in the subject.
In Lezgin, the terms Аллагьа гайитIа (Allaha ghayita) and ин шаа Аллагь (inshallah) are widely used by Lezgins, with the meaning "hopefully" or "if God wills".
Thus, in the year 1516, Reuchlin's diagram came to appear on the cover of the Paolo Riccio's Latin translation of Joseph ben Abraham Gikatilla's Gates of Light.
She claimed that in Tibet, she was taught an ancient, unknown language known as Senzar, and translated a number of ancient texts written in this language that were preserved by the monks of a monastery; she stated that she was, however, not permitted entry into the monastery itself.
Augustine, the virtue's meaning as temperance or "proper mixture" became the dominant view in subsequent Western European thought.
Plague When the second plague pandemic hit Rome again in 1522, the local authorities banned processions so as to stop the disease spreading.
The story begins at 2 Kings 4:8, and is demarcated from the previous story by Elisha's arrival in Shunem, and by a change in heroine — from the widow of the son of the prophets (4:1-7) to the rich woman of Shunem.
An influential substance dualism was formulated by René Descartes, who argued that bodies are extended things, while minds are thinking things.
The prologue is largely lost, although it appears that at some point during it, silver and copper bring Enlil offerings.
For many years, Wahhabi clerics opposed the establishment of a television service in Saudi Arabia, as they believed it immoral to produce images of humans.
The King James version systematically translates the word as "sodomites", while the Revised Standard version renders it, "male cult prostitutes".
Fitzmyer disputes the claim that the Apostolic Decree is based on the seven Noahide laws (Gen 9), and instead proposes Lev 17–18 as the basis for it.
As David Greene points out, Johnson's moral writings contain no "predetermined and authorized pattern of 'good behavior,'" although they do emphasize certain kinds of conduct.
The tablet is 3.2 inches (8.1 cm) by 2.6 inches (6.6 cm) by 0.85 inches (2.2 cm) at its thickest point.
Atenism & Amenhotep III cult An important note about Akhenaten's self-deification program is that it was theologically connected to Amenhotep III's during-lifetime deification.
This is allegedly much like a mental construct from which the therapist may attempt to move the spirit into a higher consciousness.
A few years later, from February 11 to July 16, 1858, the Blessed Virgin Mary was pleased, as a new favor, to manifest herself in the territory of the Pyrenees to a pious and pure child of a poor, hardworking, Christian family.
Afterward, the world will resurface anew and fertile, the surviving and returning gods will meet, and mankind will be repopulated by Líf and Lífþrasir, who will emerge from Yggdrasil.
See also Esoteric Christianity Mysticism Psychosophy Theosophy Resources http://www.doyletics.com/arj/psychbsp.htm
The parts that describe the lovers’ meeting and the writer’s final remarks are especially touching and well-written.
The experiment unexpectedly found that most could be led to inflict the electric shocks, including shocks that would have been fatal if they had been real.
There has been a continuous debate over oral versus written transmission, with the focus on the perceived higher reliability of written evidence, primarily based on the "linear world of academia" where only written down records are accepted.
Environment The Mosques and Schools in Jordan are nearing 100% powered by renewable energy, using the energy for activities such as lights and heating water.
During the Great Depression, the school suffered from both the economic downturn as well as a broader disinterest in Spiritualism.
A vice is a practice, behaviour, habit or item generally considered morally wrong in the associated society.
It is also stated that true love for other humans occurs when people see the beauty of God in other people's souls.
In Boyer's view, belief in supernatural entities spreads and becomes culturally fixed because of their memorability.
The protest and counter-protest lasted nearly three hours and was mostly peaceful until some clashes broke out toward the end, instigated by the anti-Catholic protestors.
This, along with other inconsistencies in the manuscript, has led to speculation that Crowley embroidered the event to support his own belief system.
Koot Hoomi was described as having spent time in London and Leipzig, being fluent in both English and French, and like Morya was a vegetarian.
For all uses and meanings of psyche/ψυχἠ, see Joseph Henry Thayer, A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament.
A great variety of these plants, from the majestic Indian lotus, down to the marsh-lotus (bird’s foot trefoil) and the Grecian “Dioscoridis”, is eaten at Crete and other islands.
Oceania In Oceania, the most common myth is that originally people had the power to rejuvenate themselves by shedding their skin like a snake.
During these consultation ceremonies, images of the zemi could be painted or tattooed on the body of a priest, who was known as a Bohuti or Buhuithu.
Aside from Di, some other gods also featured powers over winds, such as Shè (Spirit of the Land), Fāng (Spirit of the Four Quarters), Wū (Shaman), and Yī Shì (Yi Yin's spouse).
All a human has to do to use these emanations is to know basic moral law, what their body and/or psyche can and cannot handle, and listen.
This is not to say that Johnson was passive in his religious observance; instead, he was an 18th-century evangelical, which, as he defines in his Dictionary, means "Agreeable to gospel; consonant to the Christian law contained in the holy gospel".
For instance, Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church hagiographies in the Ge'ez language are known as gadl (Saint's Life).
Nekhen (Greek Hierakonpolis) was the Upper Egyptian centre of the worship of the god Horus, whose successors the Egyptian pharaohs were thought to be.
The same year, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow visited the city of Sarov, home to the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics and birthplace of Saint Seraphim of Sarov, where he said that Russia's nuclear weapons programme was the will of God.
A person born to a Muslim parent who later rejects Islam is called a murtad fitri, and a person who converted to Islam and later rejects the religion is called a murtad milli.
It became ubiquitous on headstones in the 19th century, and is widely used today when mentioning someone's death.
Conspiracy theories In December 2024, viral posts on Instagram, TikTok, Reddit, and Facebook variously claiming falsely that the pope would be opening "spiritual portals" or "sacred portals" in a "never-before-performed" ritual as part of the 2025 Jubilee celebrations.
Early views Burke's early essays "Religion of No Efficacy Considered as a State Engine" and "Religion" criticize contemporary efforts to reduce religion to a social and political instrument.
This ensured an impeccable textual transmission superior to the classical texts of other cultures; it is, in fact, something like a tape-recording....
Daoist texts The body of myths surrounding Li Hong took shape in Chinese literature during the Han dynasty.
These derived respectively from Greek and Near Eastern pagan religions, from Ancient Greek philosophy, and from the Jewish tradition and the Old Testament.
Shinto mythology distinguishes several kinds of kami, those reputedly "celestial" (amatsu-kami) like Amaterasu Omikami, and those qualified as "terrestrial" (kunitsu-kami) like Okuninushi no Mikoto.
Ceremonial magic In the mid-nineteenth century the French occultist Éliphas Lévi introduced the term 'astral light' in his Dogme et rituel de la haute magie (1856), and wrote of it as a factor he considered of key importance to magic, alongside the power of will and the doctrine of correspondences.
The picture depicts the Annunciation by the Archangel Gabriel to the Virgin Mary that she will bear the Son of God (Luke 1:26-38).
Matsya Purana, a Hindu text, has a Sanskrit language shloka (hymn), which explains the importance of reverence of ecology.
Dating and historical context Very little is known about the date or historical context in which Bhāruci was writing, but P.
Material things imitate the Forms to varying degrees but fail to fully embody them, for example, as degrees of justice without reaching perfect justice.
Phenomena of locutions are described in the lives of Christian saints such as Saint Mary of Egypt (5th century), who heard the locution from the Icon of Virgin Mary at the Holy Sepulchre or in case of the Saint Henry of Coquet Island (d.
In the Catholic tradition In the Catholic Church, traditionally the resurrected body is called the "glorified body", and retained four characteristics: incorruptibility, subtlety, impassibility, and agility.
Some Tenrikyo authorities suggest that two of these figures, Kunitokotachi-no-Mikoto and Omotari-no-Mikoto, represent tsukihi, or more precisely the duality tsuki-sama and hi-sama.
History Ancient times India Ancient Indian economic thought centred on the relationship between the concepts of happiness, ethics, and economic values, as connections between them led to the constituting description of human existence.
After being stabbed by the wife of the man who encountered the rabbi and invited him for a meal, the dybbuk walks out of their house and disappears into the snowy night.
Kane argues that it cannot have been written after 1050 CE because Vijñāneśvara, the author of the Mitākṣarā, a famous commentary on the Yājñavalkya Smṛti, mentions Bhāruci's commentary in his writing.
Little by little his body will become purified by the internal lustration of God; day by day his mortal frame, shedding its earthly elements, will become in very truth the Temple of the Holy Ghost.
It is hardly surprising in medieval context that a dream message should have prognosticating context, giving warning about the person's fate.
Depending on the karmic particles attached to a soul, Jain theology states a being is reborn in one of four gatis (states of existence), namely, heavenly being (deva), human (manushya), hell being (naraki) and animals and plants (triyancha).
Marcionism, an early Christian sect, held that the Old and New Testaments were the work of two opposing gods: both were First Principles, but of different religions.
The Cake of Light is the eucharistic host found within Thelema, the religion founded by English occult writer Aleister Crowley in 1904.
Some theologians have argued that Mary did not die, while others maintain that she experienced death not due to original sin, but to share in her son's own death and resurrection.
In 1954, Grant began the work of founding the New Isis Lodge, which became operational in 1955 when Grant announced his discovery of a "Sirius/Set current" in a new manifesto upon which the lodge would be based.
For example, in Matthew 23:34–37 and Luke 11:47–51, Jesus assigned all of the bloodguilt for the killing of the prophets and of the saints to the Pharisees of Jerusalem.
They treated the Apocalypse as an expansion of the "Little Apocalypse" of the Synoptic Gospels (Matthew 24; Mark 13; Luke 21).
When the thirty-first day arrives, take out the root in the middle of the night and dry it in an oven heated with branches of verbena; then wrap it up in a piece of a dead man's winding-sheet and carry it with you everywhere.
Mythical theology (theologica mythica) is one of three types of theology defined by the Roman scholar Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BC) in his lost work Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum.
In various religions, certain individuals are believed to have entered heaven without dying first—through "ascension", "assumption", or "translation".
Canudos was a folk-Catholic commune in backcountry Bahia, Brazil, brutally crushed in 1897 by the new Brazilian Republic.
In many Yoga traditions, the virtue of equanimity can be one of the results attained through regular meditation, combined with regular practice of pranayama, asanas, and mental disciplines, which clear the mind and bring one inexorably toward a state of health and balance.
According to The Manifesto of the Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn, the Order had undertaken to revise the teachings of the original Victorian era Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn system to work more effectively in the 21st century.
-lu 'army'), whose original meaning may have been 'those serving the chief', by comparing with Balto-Slavic words that probably emerged from early linguistic contacts with Celtic speakers in Central-Eastern Europe: e.g.
Two other names for Jerusalem also derive from the Q-D-S root: Bayt al-Muqqadas ("the holy house") and Bayt al-Maqdis.
The first to raise an argument is Silver (though some find this reconstruction contentious), followed by a rebuttal by Copper, followed by a final response by Silver.
Philosophical and theological reflections Ancient philosophy developed increasingly abstract conceptions of divinity, seeking to understand the nature of the divine beyond anthropomorphic gods.
The vedas and Gita, the most sacred of hindu texts were written on the banks of Sarasvati river which were codified during the Kuru kingdom in present-day Haryana.
The Book of Acts says that after the ascension of Jesus, Stephen, the first Christian martyr, was killed when he was accused of speaking against the Second Temple and the Mosaic Law.
They too were said to spin destinies, although this may have been due to influence from Greek literature.
According to anthropologist of religion Winston Davis, Mahikari groups are comparable to the Church of World Messianity and follow basically the same healing ritual.
The Middle Kingdom, China, had a central mountain, Kunlun, known in Taoist literature as "the mountain at the middle of the world".
"Mythical theology" should be distinguished from the theologia mystica of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite.
The four sub-spirits are the ara-mitama (荒御霊・荒御魂; Wild Spirit), the nigi-mitama (和御霊・和御魂; Gentle Spirit), the saki-mitama (幸御魂; Happy Spirit) and the kushi-mitama (奇御霊・奇御魂; Wondrous Spirit).
This seems to be the earliest mention of Saligrama as this temple was constructed prior to the birth of Adi Shankara.
According to some treatments, the Parcae seem to be more powerful than many, or perhaps even all, of the gods: "The power of the Parcae was great and extensive.
Each sefirah (singular of sefirot) represents a different aspect of the Divine, as well as aspects of human consciousness and existence.
Frankfort, Kingship and the Gods, University of Chicago Press 1978 László Török, The Kingdom of Kush: Handbook of the Napatan-Meroitic Civilization, Brill 1997 George Hart, The Routledge Dictionary Of Egyptian Gods And Goddesses, Routledge 2005 == Footnotes ==
Laying violent hands on a cleric used to incur an automatic excommunication according to the 1917 Code of Canon Law.
Presiding over successive falls The evil power of the Dark Lords brings about successive falls in the history of Middle-earth, reflecting the biblical pattern in which man is cast out of the original paradise into the ordinary world, never to return.
Further, one should not eat food made by them, nor should one share a Bata [cooking vessel] with them—this is forbidden for a Sachiyaar Sikh, and doing so (keeping this Rehat) is a very high Bibeki Karam.
The ground below them is a sallow, earthy yellow covered with grass, complementing the dirty ivory color of the partially-bleached skulls.
In Thailand Pali is transliterated into the Thai alphabet, resulting in a Thai pronunciation of the Pali language.
In elections between only two candidates where one is mildly unpopular and the other immensely unpopular, opponents of both candidates frequently advocate a vote for the mildly unpopular candidate.
In 2014, a controversy arose when the United States Presbyterian Church (PCUSA) published a study guide, Zionism Unsettled, quickly withdrawn from sale on its website, that asserted that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was fueled by a "pathology inherent in Zionism".
Crowley thought that it was important for ceremonial magicians to perform a eucharistic ritual of some kind daily: A Eucharist of some sort should most assuredly be consummated daily by every magician, and he should regard it as the main sustenance of his magical life.
I am Yokabar-Kušṭa, I who went away from the house of my father and came (here) (ana hu iukabar kušṭa, ḏ-asgit mn bit ab atib).
The perspectives of those Jewish groups opposed to the use of intercessors is usually softer in regard to beseeching the Almighty alone merely in the "merit" (zechut) of a tzadik.
Hindu saints have often renounced the world, and are variously called gurus, sadhus, rishis, swamis, muni, yogis, yoginis and other names.
394) in which he recounted how he tore apart a curtain hanging on the doors of the church decorated with an image of 'Christ or one of the saints' and admonished the other bishop that such images are "opposed ...
Within the VR motion ride Battle for Eire at Busch Gardens Williamsburg, the Sluagh are the minions of the evil villain Balor in the ride's story.
The Vedanta school instead holds that a single, unitary principle (i.e., God, Brahman) comprises all of reality, giving rise to both the material and spiritual.
The Five Deities are a cosmological conception of the fivefold manifestation of the supreme God, or his five changing faces, that are elaborated in the classic texts and may originate from the Neolithic.
The King then appoints that monk to the office of Je Khenpo and in turn, the Lopons are appointed on the same criteria by the Je Khenpo on the advice of the remaining members of the Dratshang Lhentshog.
The instance of a Pope doing this outside an Ecumenical Council is rare, though there were two instances in recent times: the Immaculate Conception of Mary in 1854 and the Assumption of Mary into heaven in 1950.
Having the proper mental attitude toward views is therefore considered an integral part of the Buddhist path, as sometimes correct views need to be put into practice and incorrect views abandoned, while at other times all views are seen as obstacles to enlightenment.
Altars, incense sticks, candles, and torches form the axis by sending a column of smoke, and prayer, toward heaven.
A most occult plant, sacred in Egypt, India and elsewhere; called “the child of the Universe bearing the likeness of its mother in its bosom”.
Tenth-century German ecclesiastical writings denounce the popular belief in three sisters who determined the course of a man's life at his birth.
Parallels in Mandaeism In Mandaeism, the uthra (celestial spirit) Piriawis Ziwa is the personification of the heavenly river of living water.
The text addresses such criticisms while also reinforcing Christianity's distinct identity in relation to surrounding religious traditions.
Influence Medieval politics The influence of Arthur's legend is not confined to novels, stories, and films; the legend of Arthur's messianic return has often been politically influential.
Rawls defined justice as fairness, especially in distributing social goods, defined fairness in terms of procedures, and attempted to prove that just institutions and lives are good, if every rational individual's goods are considered fairly.
In addition to gods and natural forces, the Greeks also recognized a class of intermediate beings known as daimones (δαίμονες), whose roles ranged from protective spirits to agents of fate.
This was the third time during Inslee's tenure the state's budget was passed in the last week of the legislative session.
Education and career Nordhaus was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the son of Virginia (Riggs) and Robert J.
Eventually, this cost grew so great that any new challenges such as invasions and crop failures could not be solved by the acquisition of more territory.
He "does not intend to have a cell phone ever." Smil is known for being "intensely private", shunning the press while letting his books speak for themselves.
His speeches and networking with world leaders at international meetings such as the United Nations Climate Change Conferences have also been influential.
The Energy Gang Shah was a founding co-host of The Energy Gang, a podcast dedicated to exploring the technological, political, and market forces driving energy and environmental issues.
Yohe also worked with the Core Writing Team to prepare the overall Synthesis Report for the entire Assessment.
Lynch said LaRouche members began to impersonate her and her researchers in telephone calls, and called her "Fat Lynch" in their publications.
Copenhagen Consensus Bjørn Lomborg chose Tol to participate in his "Copenhagen Consensus" project in 2008.
I will defend myself." In 1987, a number of LaRouche entities, including the Fusion Energy Foundation, were taken over through an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding.
Jaccard has been a professor at Simon Fraser University since 1986, where he teaches courses in environment and resource economics, sustainable energy and materials, and energy and materials economic and policy modeling.
On July 2, 2013, Zucchet (an avid bridge and card player at Duke University), finished in 4th place for $143,642 in Event #54, $1,000 No-Limit Hold'em, at the World Series of Poker.
Shihab-Eldin currently serves as an adjunct professor at the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU), teaching in the MBA Energy Management program and sitting on its advisory board.
He taught two graduate courses: Ec2680 Environmental and Natural Resource Economics and Ec2690, Environmental Economics and Policy Seminar.
Selected publications Books Auctions: Theory and Practice, Princeton University Press, Princeton, US, 2004.
Three years later, Weitzman was promoted to associate professor, and he remained in this position until 1972 when he joined the faculty at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an associate professor.
Prior to the Loan Programs Office, Shah gained prominence as an American clean energy entrepreneur, author and podcast host.
Consisting of academics drawn from across Africa, the United States of America, and the United Kingdom, the board assisted in the development and broadening of technical workforce skills across Africa.
Honors Scientific and engineering academies Among many honors, he is a Member of the United States National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and an Elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
In April 2004, Currie warned of the 'revenge of the old economy' after decades of a lack of investment in the old economy, claiming that higher commodity prices were likely needed to attracted capital.
His research considers the degree to which US companies avoid pollution regulations by importing dirty products; an explanation of why pollution is worse for middle-income countries; and how to use self-reported happiness measures to put a dollar value on air quality.
Education and qualifications Tertzakian has an undergraduate degree in Geophysics from the University of Alberta, and a graduate degree in Econometrics from the University of Southampton, U.K.
A founding co-director of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program (2017–2019) he joined the faculty of New York University in 2019, moving to Columbia University in 2022.
Jigar Shah (born August 30, 1974) is an American entrepreneur who served as the director of the Loan Programs Office (LPO) in the U.S.
The CNN article article was subsequently shared by Questlove and others; Wagner recounted the episode in a conversation with Holly Buck.
His analysis on this subject has featured prominently in the Financial Times, which described it as "thought provoking": [Newell] argued that "there has never been an energy transition" because, as each new technology has emerged, it has merely added to older sources, rather than replacing them.
Those books include, Managing the Global Commons: The Economics of Climate Change (1994), which won the 2006 award for "Publication of Enduring Quality" from the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists.
Among books promoted as serious intellectual statements by important thinkers, I don't think I have ever read a shoddier work.
He taught courses in micro- and macro-economics, econometrics, industrial organization, and economic strategy.
In 2009, Tol published a controversial paper that combined data from several earlier studies, concluding that at least some amount of global warming could lead to economic gains.
Johnson wrote in 1983 that both the Fusion Energy Foundation and the National Democratic Policy Committee had attracted some 20,000 members, as well as 300,000 magazine subscribers.
His father returned from military service in World War II and, considering himself unable to care for his son, placed him in an orphanage.
He also led the negotiations of the foreign investment provisions of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Awards In 1996 he was awarded the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and in 2007 he was presented with the Leontief Prize for Advancing the Frontiers of Economic Thought by the Global Development and Environment Institute.
The Mayan and Chacoan regions had no powerful complex neighbors and so could collapse for centuries or millennia, as could the Western Roman Empire.
Sophie Brochu (born 1963) is a Canadian economist and manager from Quebec who worked for 22 years at Gaz Métro/Énergir.
Climate and energy policy Wagner was an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund from 2008 to 2014 and lead senior economist from 2014 to 2016.
See also Andy Stirling David Elliott Energy Fair Gordon Walker World Nuclear Industry Status Report == References ==
Since the sun will continue to shine for billions of years to come, the earth's mineral stock is the scarcer one of these two main sources of low entropy.
2, Brill, Leiden Staff "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" (1984) Contemporary Authors: A bio-bibliographical guide to current writers in fiction, general nonfiction, poetry, journalism, drama, motion pictures, television, and other fields Vol.
Albert Julius Meyer (14 May 1919 – 31 October 1983) was an American economist who taught at Harvard University for 28 years.
Early life Broadman was born in New York City, attended The Loomis Chaffee School, and graduated from Brown University in 1977 with an A.B.
Gary Yohe later accused Lomborg of "deliberate distortion of our conclusions", adding that "as one of the authors of the Copenhagen Consensus Project's principal climate paper, I can say with certainty that Lomborg is misrepresenting our findings thanks to a highly selective memory".
Instead of putting goods and their prices directly into the index we should reduce all goods to their constituent characteristics.
In 2012, Keohane returned to the Environmental Defense Fund as vice president for Global Climate, and later served as Senior Vice President for Climate.
Education After completing his Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree in Environmental Sciences and his M.A.
Education Ph.D.: University of Grenoble, Department of Economics / Institute of Energy Economics and Policy, 1987.
During the 2008 financial crisis, he advised the UK and US governments and developed a new form of auction (the Product Mix auction) to help the Bank of England alleviate the liquidity crisis.
He would reprise the role as band leader with an ad hoc jazz group, Lee Schipper and the Mitigators, who performed primarily in conjunction with energy-related conferences.
He specialises in the economics and policy of nuclear power (of which he is a critic), liberalisation and privatisation of the electricity and gas industries, and trade policy on network energy industries.
From that point on, he predicts, ever deepening scarcities will cause widespread misery, aggravate social conflict throughout the globe, and intensify man's economic struggle to work and earn a livelihood.
He stood for Lothian East at the 2024 general election, where he finished in seventh place out of seven candidates, winning 577 votes and a 1.2% share.
Instead of a peak, Yergin predicted that future oil production would plateau as increasing prices moderate demand and stimulate production.
His best-known work, The Collapse of Complex Societies (1988), examines the collapse of Maya and Chacoan civilizations, and of the Western Roman Empire, in terms of network theory, energy economics and complexity theory.
Spatial Ecological-Economic Analysis for Wetland Management: Modelling and Scenario Evaluation of Land Use, Cambridge University Press.
He also holds a Master of Science in Management of Technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Intense, authoritarian efforts to maintain cohesion by Domitian and Constantine the Great only led to ever greater strain on the population.
Later in his life, Georgescu-Roegen would regret having turned down Schumpeter's generous offer at this point in his career.
Currie was a key speaker alongside other leading private, public and Governmental figures at the Future Minerals Forum 2024, where he contributed to the conference's key focus on the mineral sector across Africa, Western and Central Asia.
While on leave from Georgetown in 2010–11, he served as a Senior Economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
EPA's highest honor for working with a team of economists that completed "complex and rigorous analysis of greenhouse gas mitigation options, leading to President Clinton's announcement of an aggressive climate change policy." March 1998.
He is a professor in the management department at Western Washington University, where from 2016 to 2023 he served as Wilder Distinguished Professor of Business and Sustainability, an endowed professorship.
Wagner's latest academic work on this topic, joint with Kent Daniel of Columbia University and Bob Litterman of Kepos Capital further emphasizes the importance of pricing climate risk and uncertainty.
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Tainter points out that it can be seen as a rational preference of individuals, many of whom were better off.
Shortly thereafter, two Hollywood environmental organizations, Earth Communications Office (ECO) and the Environmental Media Association, were formed.
He was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1994, a fellow of the British Academy in 1999, and a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2005.
Georgescu-Roegen found that two of his other main sources of inspiration, namely Karl Pearson and Albert Einstein, also had a largely Machian outlook.
oil import policy, regulatory reform of the natural gas industry, and oil exploration and development in non-OPEC developing countries.
References External links Jigar Shah – Department of Energy Creating Climate Wealth // Amazon Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa (May 11, 2023).
where he did his undergraduate work, majoring in physics and electrical engineering, and received his bachelor's degree in 1966.
He has been a senior fellow of SIEPR since 1998 and a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution from 2001 until his retirement.
Economist Filip Palda summarizes the importance of Nordhaus's insight when he writes, The practical lesson to be drawn from this fascinating study of lighting is that the way we measure the consumer price index is severely flawed.
Broadcaster Since 19 October 2019, Milov has been broadcasting a weekly program about international politics, Hugs With Dictators, on his YouTube channel.
Richels has served on a number of national and international advisory panels, including committees of the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Research Council.
In many cases, buyers used the rebate to buy something bigger and more high-powered than they would have otherwise.
He was also a member of the United Nations Environment Programme Economic Options Panel, which reviewed the economic aspects of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
Birol's work at the IEA has led to a number of his international honours and recognitions (see table below).
Career In the 1990s and early 2000s, Newell was a senior associate at the global advisory and digital services provider ICF International, a teaching fellow at Harvard University, and a senior fellow at Resources for the Future.
From 1981 to 1984, he worked at Phillips Petroleum Co., where he was Director for International Affairs.
He was the Scottish National Party Member of Parliament (MP) for East Lothian from 2015, until he lost his seat to Martin Whitfield of the Labour Party at the 2017 general election.
In the heated controversies that followed the report, Georgescu-Roegen found himself largely on the same side as the club, and opposed to the mainstream economists.
While at Harvard he co-authored an article arguing for placing a $10.00 tariff on imported oil to curb U.S.
Though trailing in early polls, he won election with 52% of the vote, a three-point margin over his Republican opponent, state attorney general Rob McKenna.
On September 18, 1996, a full-page advertisement appeared in the New Federalist, a LaRouche publication, as well as The Washington Post and Roll Call.
He obtained a master's degree in Electrical Engineering (Technology and Policy Program) in 1993 and a doctorate in Management Science in 1998, both at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
His doctorate thesis, An Econometric Model of Tourism Demand and a Computable General Equilibrium Analysis of the Impact of Tourism: The Case of Fiji Islands was assessed to be the most outstanding work, earning him the Mollie Hollman Medal in 2004 at Monash University.
Sweeney is an American economist and engineer specializing in energy economics, environmental policy, and natural resource economics.
President Prodi remarked that the EU hydrogen R&D initiative would be as significant for the future of Europe as the space program was for the U.S.
"Skip" Laitner, in People-Centered Initiatives for Increasing Energy Savings, Karen Ehrhardt-Martinez and John A.
He pointed out that the study "stops short of the most that can be supported on a cost benefit basis" and stated that "it does not seem reasonable" to rely solely on Tol's own FUND model when alternatives "reported in the peer-reviewed literature are also credible".
When LaRouche's "heavily fortified" estate was surrounded, he at first warned law-enforcement officials not to arrest him, saying that any attempt to do so would be an attempt to kill him.
From 2001 to 2007, he was an Assistant Professor and then associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management.
A 98-year-old farmer accused Weitzman of multiple manure thefts from the farm, while Weitzman argued he had permission from the farmer's son to take the manure.
According to his ICREA profile page as of March 2015, his research is on "the intersection of economics, environmental science and innovation studies.
See also Societal collapse Collapsology State collapse Wicked problem References Further reading Kohr, Leopold: The Breakdown of Nations, 1957.
He is a winner of the Spinozapremie (1996), the European Prize in Regional Science, and Founder's Medal of the Regional Science Association International.
Currie earned a Master of Arts Economics at the University of Chicago in December 1990, and a PhD in economics from the university in June 1996.
Following the demise of the IMG, Kerevan joined the Labour Party and served as a councillor for the party in Edinburgh from 1984 to 1996.
Stephen DeCanio (born 1942) is a Professor of economics, emeritus, at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Employment History On completion of his doctoral studies, Narayan was appointed a lecturer at the Griffith Business School, on the Gold Coast, Australia, and was promoted to senior lecturer in 2005.
at Queens University, Leach was appointed as an assistant professor at HEC Montreal, a post he held for three years.
Jaccard, 2014, "A comparative assessment of economic-incentive and command-and-control instruments for air pollution and CO2 control in *China’s iron and steel sector," Journal of Environmental Management.
With Tadeusz Patzek, he is author of Drilling Down: The Gulf Oil Debacle and Our Energy Dilemma, published in 2011.
Evidence for this was publishing 15 letters to the editor in the New York Times on energy efficiency.
One activist said he attended meetings where members were writhing on the floor saying they needed de-programming.
(convening lead author) et al., 2012, "Energy Policies: Objectives and Instruments," Chapter 22 in Johansson, T., Patwardhan, A., Nakicenovic, N.
In 2007-12 he served as convening lead author for energy policy in the production of the Global Energy Assessment.
The aim of the NCLC was to win control of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) branch – the university's main activist group – and build a political alliance between students, local residents, organized labor, and the Columbia faculty.
He has played a significant role in various EU policy projects and has taught extensively on topics related to sustainable development and energy policy across various international platforms.
He was a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second, Third and Fourth Assessment Reports (the IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore) and served on the Synthesis Team for the US National Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on the United States.
The theme of the presentation was that security assistance in Central America would be enhanced through economic growth and prosperity.
The student involved was allowed to adapt the thesis and the graduation ceremony took place in 2014.
William Martin served for ten years (from 2000 to 2010) as Chairman of the Nuclear Energy Advisory Committee during the administrations of George W.
The process has already begun." His 1998 book, The Biotech Century, addresses issues accompanying the new era of genetic commerce.
His grandfather Olney Flynn was mayor of Tulsa and the Republican nominee for Governor of Oklahoma in 1948.
In addition, Parker is a Research Fellow and Visiting Scholar at the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy, where he leads platform industry research studies and co-chairs the annual MIT Platform Strategy Summit.
His published research includes a 2001 study in the Journal of Public Economics showing how the environmental Kuznets curve can be explained by a one-person, two-good model without market failures.
Jaccard, 2013, "A tale of two climate policies: Political-economy of British Columbia’s carbon tax and clean electricity standard." Canadian Public Policy.
Testimony, Analysis, and Commentary Newell has testified on multiple occasions in front of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, most recently on global climate emissions trends and clean energy advancements.
Climate Shock details how what we know about global warming is bad and what we do not know is potentially much worse.
He is also a research associate with the National Bureau of Economic Research and a Fellow of the Econometric Society.
In October 2023, Currie was appointed as Director of the Company by the Board of international drilling contractor, Borr Drilling.
He holds an AB and a PhD in political economy and government from Harvard University, as well as an MA in economics from Stanford University.
Memberships and directorships Yergin is the current vice chairman of S&P Global, appointed during the company's merger with IHS Markit.
5 Behn, Wolfgang (2006) "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" Concise Biographical Companion to Index Islamicus Vol.
Rifkin delivered a keynote address on transforming the European Union into a smart third industrial revolution paradigm.
Securing Nebraska’s Energy and Economic Future: Creating Jobs, New Economic Opportunities and Health Benefits through Productive Investments in Wind Energy and Energy Efficiency, by John A.
He was also one of the world's experts on Wilhelm Furtwangler, a 20th-century symphonic and operatic conductor, and collected one of the most complete sets of his recordings.
Public policy He was principal auction-theorist designing the UK '3G' mobile-phone license auction that raised £22½ billion in spring 2000 and was far more successful than several parallel exercises on the European continent.
One of his early works is the wildly popular introductory textbook, Economics, co-authored with Paul Samuelson.
According to Reuters, "since then he has given advice to every administration." 1980s–1990s He founded Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) with Jamey Rosenfield in 1982 with the purchase of a $2 file cabinet from The Salvation Army.
However, in most analyses, the damages that would stem from dramatic climate change are not taken into consideration.
He is also a senior economic research fellow for the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA).
Another article he co-wrote, “Pipelines, Platforms, and the New Rules of Strategy,” was cited in Harvard Business Review’s 2025 “Definitive HBR Strategy Glossary” under the category of Platform Strategy.
Additionally, degrowth is unlikely to gain significant social or political support, making it an ineffective strategy for achieving environmental sustainability.
In 2021, he completed a book on climate change, titled Climate Future: Averting and Adapting to Climate Change (Oxford University Press).
He said ‘‘Lee was one of the first people to point out that people don’t want to consume energy, but they want to consume energy services, like transportation, comfortable rooms, cold beer and so forth.
He previously served as an associate editor for the journal Management Science and was President of the Industry Studies Association.
He acknowledges that this level of taxation is too low to significantly discourage fossil fuel use but argues it would help to stimulate the development of fuel-saving technology and improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
Milov co-authored with the late Boris Nemtsov in 2008 a report on the Putin administration's failures, which was suppressed.
Nicholas Stern argued that the damage function does not capture many of the most important risks to society.
Pachauri, chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, for having "contributed substantially to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)," thus contributing to the IPCC's award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize.
As a UC Berkeley student and vibraphonist, he led his jazz group to victory at the Notre Dame Jazz Festival in 1967.
Trip to the United States, meeting Schumpeter In autumn 1934, Georgescu-Roegen went to the United States.
Leach says that carbon pricing is not necessarily and unconditionally going to "achieve a better outcome" than with regulation or cap and trade.
In Energy Efficiency: Building a Clean, Secure Economy (2016), he argued that improvements in energy efficiency have played a central role in U.S.
After teaching at Tufts University (1970–72) and Yale University (1972–78), he joined the faculty at UCSB in 1978.
References External links Arik Levinson publications indexed by Google Scholar Arik Levinson home page.
Another branch, represented by Robert Pindyck, holds that integrated assessment models cannot capture the complexity of the climate-economy nexus.
The book explains what we know and don't know about climate change, argues that despite our best intentions and efforts temperatures are likely to rise substantially over the coming decades, and shows how forms of adaptation can be used to reduce the impact of warming.
See also List of Yale University people List of American non-fiction environmental writers List of economic advisors to Donald Trump List of University of Cambridge people Predicting the timing of peak oil References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Daniel Yergin at IMDb
External links Utah State University Archived 2021-09-18 at the Wayback Machine, Joseph Tainter official faculty page How Do You Know When Society Is About to Fall Apart?
Reception Included among Smil's admirers is Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has said: "I wait for new Smil books the way some people wait for the next Star Wars movie." "He's a slayer of bullshit," says David Keith, an energy and climate scientist at Harvard University.
Gomez-Echeverri (eds.) The Global Energy Assessment: Towards a Sustainable Future, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
His testimony included two appearances before the Energy and Commerce Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Environment.
The investigation committee under Jaap Zwemmer concluded in March 2015 that Nijkamp had re-used earlier publications in new papers on a certain scale, without proper referencing and the committee qualified this as "questionable research practice".
He later went on to work with others on a specific element of this process: the diminishing marginal returns on innovation.
He lives in a house with unusually thick insulation, grows some of his own food, and eats meat roughly once a week.
Under his leadership, association agreements increased with major producers of energy, especially with countries outside the OECD in the Global South, such as India and China.
Olmstead (Island Press, 5 January 2016) References External links Nat Keohane, Center for Climate and Energy Solutions
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
1MDB controversy In 2009 Morse provided a valuation for the Malaysian state fund 1MDB for petroleum exploration and production assets associated with PetroSaudi International Ltd.
His father Irving Yergin worked at Warner Brothers and was editor of The Hollywood Reporter and a former journalist in Chicago.
That model changed the status quo, allowing organizations to purchase solar energy services under long-term predictably priced contracts and avoid the significant capital costs of ownership and operation of solar energy systems.
doi:10.1086/704493 References External links In memorium article by Gernot Wagner and Robert Stavins Home page
The court ruling was credited with beginning the process of regulating the release of genetically engineered organisms into the environment in the United States and around the world.
Career 2012 to Present: Founder of Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates, based in Tucson, Arizona, where he leads a team of consultants.
Fatih Birol (born 22 March 1958) is a Turkish economist and energy expert, who has served as the executive director of the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) since 1 September 2015.
Corruption allegations Three days after becoming acting Mayor, Zucchet resigned from the City Council after he was convicted in U.S.
1983: Move from New York to Loudoun County The Washington Post wrote that LaRouche and his wife moved in August 1983 from New York to a 13-room Georgian mansion on a 250-acre section of the Woodburn Estate, near Leesburg, Loudoun County, Virginia.
The National Program was established to ensure continuity of the United States government in the event of a nuclear attack.
Dunn also serves on the faculty of the Institute for Energy Studies, on the Graduate Faculty Governance Council, and on the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Advocacy Council.
Weitzman also derived the Gittins index – a celebrated result in the applied probability literature – independently from (and in parallel to) John C.
Jaccard), 2011, "Policy, Financing and Implementation," In Edenhofer et al., IPCC Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
A "perspective paper" by Anil Markandya of the University of Bath on the Yohe/Tol study stated that "a short time period analysis is misleading" when all the costs are incurred during the period examined but benefits continue to accrue after its conclusion.
Representative Sid Morrison chose not to run for reelection representing Washington's 4th congressional district, instead mounting a campaign for governor.
Professional career Kerevan held academic posts at Napier College, including Senior Lecturer in Economics, from 1975 to 2000, specialising in energy economics.
Reporting on the growing controversy over automation and technology displacement in 2011, The Economist pointed out that Rifkin drew attention to the trend back in 1996 with the publication of his book, The End of Work.
He has served as Editor of the Energy, Environment and National Resources area of the Operations Research Journal.
Economics has been called a "canonical textbook", and the development of mainstream economic thought has been traced by comparing the nineteen editions over the 1948–2010 period.
He studied mathematics as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley and received his Ph.D.
Williamson writing for The Regulatory Review, a publication of the Penn Program on Regulation, notes how "changes in the composition of goods manufactured in the U.S.
New York, Hill & Wang/Farrar Straus & Giroux, ISBN 0-8090-5207-5 2015: Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, Princeton University Press 2015, ISBN 978-0-691-15947-8 (Financial Times-McKinsey Top 15 Business Book of the Year 2015.
Jeff Currie is an economist and currently Chief Strategy Officer of Energy Pathways at The Carlyle Group.
Physicist Edward Teller, a proponent of SDI and X-ray lasers, told reporters in 1984 that he had been courted by LaRouche but had kept his distance.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
Nordhaus' model is now widely spread and is used to simulate how the economy and the climate co-evolve." Many of the news outlets that reported on Nordhaus's prize noted that he was in the early wave of economists who embraced a carbon tax as a preferred method of carbon pricing.
After graduating from Collège de Lévis, where she performed on stage under the supervision of Denis Bernard and Robert Lepage, Brochu was admitted to the Conservatoire d'art dramatique de Québec.
Yergin has been a member of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board under presidents Bill Clinton, George W.
IEA leadership While at the International Energy Agency, Birol has overseen several major changes in the approach of the organization.
The End of Energy Obesity: Breaking Today's Energy Addiction for a Prosperous and Secure Tomorrow (2009).
In 2013, Nordhaus chaired a committee of the National Research Council that produced a report discounting the impact of fossil fuel subsidies on greenhouse gas emissions.
From 1979 to 1981, Morse served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy.
In Rifkin's 1989 revised edition of Entropy:..., entitled Entropy: Into the Greenhouse World, its "afterword" was written by Georgescu-Roegen.
Gorbachev also hated my guts and called for my assassination and imprisonment and so forth." He asserted that he had survived these threats, because he had been protected by unnamed U.S.
In 2014, Narayan received the Scopus Young Researcher award for the best three authors in Australia in the Social Science category under the age of forty.
After graduation he refused to join the Communist party, undermining his job prospects, though he found employment at a regional planning office.
He previously worked as a senior fellow at the organization from 1997 to 2006 and has served on its board of directors since 2011.
Measuring the Energy Reduction Impact of Selected Broadband-Enabled Activities within Households Archived 2016-03-22 at the Wayback Machine, by John A.
He was a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Energy and a member of the International Association for Energy Economics.
He was due to act as Review Editor for the chapter on Transport in Working Group III's contribution to the Fifth Assessment Report, released in April 2014.
He was assistant secretary general to the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries in Kuwait from 1976 to 1978.
In 2010 he became the editor-in-chief of the Elsevier journal Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions.
The case for retaining Seafield: a special report on Seafield Colliery and the reasons why Seafield coal is vital to Scotland's energy future.
Think-tank (2002–2011) In November 2002, Milov founded and became the head of the research fund Institute for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Complex (in 2003, it was renamed to Institute for Energy Policy).
Dubner, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2007 Study Guide Accompanying Macroeconomics, with Abel, Bernanke, Smith, and Kneebone,6th Canadian edition, Pearson Canada, 2011.
Daniel Howard Yergin (born February 6, 1947) is an American author, economic historian, and consultant within the energy and economic sectors.
Publications His books include Social Change and Sustainable Transport (with William Black, 2002, Indiana University Press) Public Facilities Planning (with Lili Kiminami and Kenneth Button, 2007, Edward Elgar) Spatial Dynamics, Networks and Modelling (with Aura Reggiani, 2006, Edward Elgar).
The terrorist was Abu Nidal and the New York Times reported that Martin was handling the terrorist attack for the President.
Birol's approach to running the organization is both securing energy security while also facilitating the Energy transition.
He has also been a visiting professor at Tel-Aviv University, Harvard University, and Columbia University.
He is a Partner, managing director, and Chair of the Emerging Markets Practice and Chair of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) Practice at the Berkeley Research Group LLC and on the faculty of Johns Hopkins University.
2020s In September 2020, Yergin published The New Map: Energy, Climate, and the Clash of Nations,with a revised edition published the following year.
His other innovations include the Anglo-Dutch auction, and (with Aytek Erdil) Reference-Rule Pricing for package auctions.
His research showed that if the slope of marginal costs is steeper, price controls are more effective and if the relative slope of marginal damages is steeper, then quantity controls are more effective.
Nyboer, 2011, "Institutions and processes for scaling up renewables: Run-of-river hydropower in British Columbia," Energy Policy.
Tarcher, ISBN 1-58542-193-6 2004, The European Dream: How Europe's Vision of the Future is Quietly Eclipsing the American Dream, Jeremy P.
In November 2020, The Daily Telegraph referred to Currie as the "world's most followed energy guru" and reported on his convictions on a new commodity supercycle.
He was given the Dean's Excellence in Teaching Award for Graduate Education at Freeman School of Business in 2014.
Earlier in his career, he held senior leadership positions at UNESCO and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
Study in Australia In 2001, he was awarded a Monash graduate school scholarship to study in Australia for three years.
In 2015, Narayan was awarded the Mahatma Gandhi Pravasi Samman Award for non-resident Indians who have made substantial contributions to the profession, including contributions to public policy.
In a new book chapter, Laitner provides a time series dataset that suggests the United States may be only 14 percent energy efficient, a level of inefficiency which could constrain the development of a more robust economy.
In 2017 he was appointed to serve as one of San Diego's three representatives on the San Diego Port Commission, which governs the Port of San Diego.
He graduated in Politics, Philosophy, and Economics from Lincoln College, Oxford and then studied economics at the London School of Economics.
Frank Donner and Randall Rothenberg wrote that he made successful overtures to the Liberty Lobby and George Wallace's American Independent Party, adding that the "racist" policies of LaRouche's U.S.
C2ES partners with business leaders — through their Business Environmental Leadership Council — to develop solutions that will accelerate a low-carbon transition, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and grow an equitable economy.
This necessary material equipment adds to the 'parasitical' operation of solar power, Georgescu-Roegen maintains.
The 3 results were then compared with 27 similar investigations, 3 each relating to 9 other 'challenges' in the areas of health and environment.
The book talks about the prominent role of business model innovation, more than new technology, in attracting mainstream capital and unlocking transformational change.
See also New Yorkers in journalism Environmental economics Climateflation Fossilflation References External links Professional homepage
Books Economics of Money and Banking, with Hamid Bahmanpoor, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2010 Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything (tr.), Steven Levitt, Stephen J.
In December 2018, Inslee announced new legislation aimed at reducing the state's carbon emissions over approximately two decades.
ISBN 978-1845429553 Selected articles As of March 2015 the five most cited articles in Google Scholar by Van den Bergh were: van den Bergh, JCJM; Verbruggen, H (1999).
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz led a major 229-page study, Advancing the Landscape of Clean Energy Innovation, which was conducted by IHS Markit and Energy Futures Initiative for the Breakthrough Energy coalition, led by Bill Gates.
Andrew Leach is a Canadian energy and environmental economist and a contributing writer to a number of Canadian news outlets including The Globe and Mail, and Maclean's.
Among other works, he is an editor of the book "Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change" and co-author (with Edwin Mansfield) of "Microeconomics| Microeconomics: Theory and Applications".
Peter Nijkamp (born 26 February 1946) is a Dutch economist, Professor of Regional Economics and Economic Geography at the Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, a fellow of the Tinbergen Institute and President of the Governing Board of the Netherlands Research Council (NWO).
Alternatively, it could lead to savings, which would provide additional funds for others to borrow and spend.
He has argued that two priorities, the environment and justice, while both worthy, "require different policy tools," and that there are pitfalls to trying to combine them in one effort or program.
He then completed the General Electric Company Financial Management Training Program and held multiple positions in engineering and finance at General Electric in North Carolina and Wisconsin.
In 1969, following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and Eva's graduation, the Smils emigrated to the United States, leaving the country months before a Soviet travel ban shut the borders.
Selected publications "Shifting Demand: From the Economic Imperative of Energy Efficiency to Business Models that Engage and Empower Consumers," by John A.
One of the most important, incorporating political and moral philosophy, is the use of discounting, with an early study by William Cline.
The World Nuclear Industry Status Report 2009 Commissioned by German Federal Ministry of Environment, Nature Conservation and Reactor Safety, August 2009.
Laitner leads a team of consultants, the Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates based in Tucson, Arizona.
All of these technology assessments have to do with energy resources only, and not with material resources.
He took part in the development of Russian legislation on the electric power industry, regulation and taxation of the energy sector.
Ronald Bailey, the libertarian science correspondent for Reason, addresses his research on which is worse for poor Americans, energy efficiency standards, or energy taxes.
The European Commission presented a spectrum of proposals, projects, and initiatives under the rubric of "Leading The Third Industrial Revolution", signaling a fundamental transformation of the European economy and society.
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World (2006).
Tiedemann, 2008, "The neighbor effect: simulating dynamics in consumer preferences for new vehicle technologies," Ecological Economics.
Polenske, Roberto Guerrero Compeán, Ciro Biderman, "Regional, Economic, and Environmental Implications of Dual Ethanol Technologies in Brazil", 2009-07-13 Karen R.
During the 2017 legislative session, the Washington State Legislature failed to pass a state operating budget by the end of its regular session on April 25, so Inslee called for a 30-day special session.
Barring continual conquest of your neighbors, which is always subject to diminishing returns, innovation that increases productivity is – in the long run – the only way out of the dilemma of declining marginal returns on added investments in complexity.
Earlier in his career, his theoretical research on housing market dynamics and on the economics of depletable natural resources helped establish analytical frameworks that influenced subsequent scholarship.
(A copy of this may be found in the References section of the Economics of global warming entry.) Economic Models of Climate Change: A Critique.
In July 1997 he was appointed professor of Environmental Economics in the Faculty of Economics and Business Administration at VU and in 2002 he also became a professor in the Institute for Environmental Studies of VU.
Politics In January 2026, Brochu was named as a potential candidate in the 2026 Quebec Liberal Party leadership election.
'In the years ahead,' he wrote, 'more sophisticated software technologies are going to bring civilization ever closer to a near-workerless world.
In November 2017, during an interview with Bloomberg, Currie stated that Bitcoin should be considered a commodity that shares many similarities with gold.
economy, for which he derived trajectories for the money supply and government spending that were optimal in the sense of keeping unemployment and inflation close to target levels.
His papers (many of which are co-authored with Jeremy Bulow) apply ideas from auction theory to other economic contexts, including finance and political economy.
In effect, overpopulation on earth is largely a dynamic long run phenomenon, being a by-product of ever more constraining mineral scarcities.
Milov authored numerous analytical materials, concept papers and publications on energy policy and infrastructure development in Russia.
Business activities Martin co-founded an international energy consulting firm, Washington Policy & Analysis Inc.
Growing up in a remote mountain town in the Plzeň Region, Smil cut wood daily to keep the home heated.
They later published it in 2011 as an electioneering plank for the People's Freedom Party together with former Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov and Vladimir Ryzhkov, only to be met by accusations from Putin of "stealing from the state".
Weitzman joined the Yale University faculty, in 1967, before moving to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and then the economics department at Harvard University in 1989, where he taught until his death in 2019.
Diminishing returns Tainter begins by categorizing the often inconsistent explanations that have been offered for collapse in the literature.
Jeremy Rifkin is the executive co-producer and star of a feature-length documentary film produced by VICE Media entitled The Third Industrial Revolution: A Radical New Sharing Economy.
The Georgescu-Roegen Annual Awards In 2012, two awards in honour of Georgescu-Roegen's life and work were established by The Energy and Resources Institute in New Delhi, India: The Georgescu-Roegen Annual Awards.
Currie then correctly foresaw the biggest decline in the price of gold for three decades in April 2013, two days ahead of the crash.
Tol specialises in energy economics and environmental economics, with a particular interest in climate change, such as the economics of global warming.
He previously served as Director General and board member of the Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (2007–2021) and held the roles of Acting Secretary General and Director of Research at OPEC (2000–2006).
1993 to 1995: Senior Economist and Program Manager for Energy Efficiency and Economic Development, a program initiated by ACEEE.
Shihab-Eldin is currently an adjunct professor at the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU), and continues to teach, deliver invited lectures, and publish research on energy policy, technology, and economics.
Again published by Carlyle, Currie argued that the shifting security landscape is driving economies to prioritise defense investment, and projected that incremental direct investment across Europe in defense and adjacent infrastructure could reach €9 trillion over the next decade.
Jeremy Rifkin joined Maros Sefcovic, vice president of the European Commission, and Markku Markkula, president of the European Committee of the Regions, in a presentation of the smart city and smart region agenda across the European Union.
He led EDF's research and policy advocacy on climate change in the United States and globally until 2021.
For example, in his view the "cash for clunkers" program—which offered rebates to people who bought a new car with better mileage than their old one—did little to save energy, although it may have reduced air pollution.
His research focuses on the development and application of energy-economy-emissions models that simulate the likely effects of sustainable energy policies.
Position on energy Smil is skeptical that there will be a rapid transition to clean energy, believing it will take much longer than many predict.
He is a senior member of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that was awarded a share of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Director of Research and Acting Secretary General at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Shah led the office in administering loans to clean energy technologies significantly advancing the Biden Administration's efforts to bring clean energy into the United States.
Shihab-Eldin was Director General of the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research (KISR) and served as a faculty member and Vice Rector for Academic Affairs at Kuwait University.
He added that the "industrial emissions associated with the production of electricity (126 Mt) and oil and gas (153 Mt)" produced for "domestic consumption, not exports." In the mass media Leach is a contributing writer for Maclean's and The Globe and Mail.
Laitner is the former Director of Economic and Social Analysis for the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE).
He also remarked that the two-degree target was set without reference to the costs of meeting the target.
Later, Georgescu-Roegen introduced the term 'bioeconomics' (short for 'biological economics') to describe his view that man's economic struggle is a continuation of the biological struggle.
In 1984 two Pentagon officials spoke at a LaRouche rally in Virginia; a Defense Department spokesman said the Pentagon viewed LaRouche's group as a "conservative group ...
He was a guest researcher at the World Bank, VVS Tekniska Foereningen, the OECD, and the Stockholm Environment Institute.
Social impact Brochu is actively involved with Centraide of Greater Montreal, and also chairs the board of directors of the Fondation Forces Avenir, a student support organization in the community.
Viewpoints and research Yergin's articles and op-eds on energy, history, and the economy have been published in a variety of publications, including The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Foreign Affairs, The Washington Post, the Financial Times, and Forbes.
LaRouche wrote that, while in the conscientious objector camp, he discussed Marxism, and while traveling home on the SS General Bradley in 1946, he met Donald Merrill, a fellow soldier, also from Lynn, who converted him to Trotskyism.
He has received the Distinguished Service Award from the Federal Energy Administration (1975), the Adelman-Frankel Award from the United States Association for Energy Economics (2007), and the Outstanding Contribution Award from the International Association for Energy Economics (2008).
The production process and the flow-fund model Georgescu-Roegen's model of the economy grew out of his dissatisfaction with neoclassical production theory as well as the input-output model of the economy, developed by Nobel Prize laureate Wassily Leontief.
Weitzman was a leading economist whose research was focused largely on environmental economics, specifically climate change and the economics of catastrophes.
He has been an invited speaker in more than 300 conferences and workshops in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia and Africa, has lectured at many universities in North America, Europe and East Asia and has worked as a consultant for many US, European Union and international institutions.
1984: Schiller Institute, television spots, contact with Reagan administration Helga Zepp-LaRouche founded the Schiller Institute in Germany in 1984.
[...] But there is good reason to question the fairness of Rifkin's angriest assaults on scientists as mad magicians and unethical disciples of Dr.
In the mid-1970s, while a post-doctoral fellow, he began to take a particular interest in energy in his writing.
The Economist cited Leach's statistics in its January 1, 2011 article "Muck and brass: Canada's tar sands", which compared statements from a number of environmentalists, academics, and oil industry players, including the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP).
Some climate scientists and commentators were disappointed with the Nobel Prize going to Nordhaus due to his embrace of substantially lower carbon taxes per ton than most scientists, along with his past history of arguing for low carbon taxes.
Tol regularly participates in studies of the Energy Modeling Forum, was an editor of Energy Economics, associate editor of Environmental and Resource Economics, and a member of the editorial board of Environmental Science and Policy, and Integrated Assessment.
References External links Official website George Kerevan Column The Scotsman Profile at Parliament of the United Kingdom Contributions in Parliament at Hansard Voting record at Public Whip Record in Parliament at TheyWorkForYou
He has published books and articles in the fields of global environmental protection and energy economics, the theory of the firm, and economic history.
Rifkin is the author of 23 books about the influence of scientific and technological changes on the economy, the workforce, society, and the environment.
At Western Washington University, he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics from 2013 to 2016 before gaining his professorship.
Pindyck's most recent research has been related to how government policy can address potential global catastrophic events, such as major pandemics, nuclear or bio-terrorism, or a climate catastrophe.
He has also been interviewed about energy policy and international politics on various television programs.
"Best bids guaranteed, Observing microeconomic theory can avoid collusion at government auctions" (PDF).
The degree to which the corrected, more pessimistic results alter the original conclusions and their policy implications was hotly debated.
While there he played "a leading role in helping to shape the group's advocacy on domestic and international climate policy." As an expert on environmental policy, Keohane testified before various committees of the United States House of Representatives.
The Institute has received support of the US National Security Archives and the historian's office of the Department of Energy.
Views According to a scientific paper of van den Bergh, degrowth is often seen as an ambiguous concept due to its various interpretations, which can lead to confusion rather than a clear and constructive debate on environmental policy.
Arturo Lorenzoni (born September 19, 1966) is an Italian academic, researcher, and politician, known for his significant contributions to energy economics, particularly in electricity markets and renewable energy.
Jeremy Rifkin (born January 26, 1945) is an American economic and social theorist, writer, public speaker, political advisor, and activist.
He is the past president of the Association of Environmental Studies and Sciences (AESS), an independent interdisciplinary professional association in higher education.
Keohane then became Director of Economic Policy and Analysis and then Chief Economist at Environmental Defense Fund.
In addition to his PhD students, he supervised the Master’s theses that were the first research of prominent economists including Professors Eric Budish, Jon Levin and Shengwu Li.
In return for dismissal of the charges, Weitzman agreed to pay the farmer $600 and to make an additional $300 charitable donation in lieu of performing community service.
It will not be necessary, or even possible, for materials recycling to form its own separate and continuous flow to be of use – only, the waste baskets in question have to be large enough to compensate for the rate and the efficiency of the recycling effort.
Inslee's major opponents in the election were State Senator Phil Fortunato, Republic, Washington police chief Loren Culp, Yakima physician Raul Garcia, activist Tim Eyman and former Bothell mayor Joshua Freed.
Career Broadman served as a consultant on energy security at the Rand Corporation in 1979 and from 1980 to 1981 he was a research fellow at the Brookings Institution.
Stobaugh he co-authored and co-edited Energy Future: The Report of the Energy Project at the Harvard Business School in 1979.
At his express request, his ashes were brought to Romania and deposited at Bellu Cemetery, in the sector reserved for academics.
He advised the US Federal Trade Commission 1999–2001, was a member of the UK Competition Commission from 2001–2005, and remains on its Panel of Economic Advisors.
Polenske, "KICKING AWAY INDUSTRIAL POLICY MYTHS— A Response to Ha-Joon Chang’s Plenary Paper", 2009-06-22 Karen R.
Department of State, where he was initially executive assistant to the Undersecretary for Economic Affairs.
Yergin's articles and op-eds on energy, history, and the economy have been published in publications such as The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Washington Post, and the Financial Times.
In 2003 he became CNBC's global energy expert, which he continued to do for a decade, and in September 2011 he appeared on The Colbert Report to discuss wind and solar power.
Biography Born in 1929 in Baghdad to Jafar Mohamad al-Chalabi and Fatima née al -Uzri, Chalabi studied law at Baghdad University and graduated in 1951 before gaining a PhD in economics from the University of Paris.
In his paper, van den Bergh highlights that a focus solely on reducing consumption (or consumption degrowth) may lead to rebound effects.
Goldman Sachs Currie joined Goldman Sachs in 1996, where he became managing director in 2002 before being named Global Head of Commodities Research in 2006, and a partner in 2008.
In 1997–2001, he worked for the natural monopoly regulator of Russia, the Federal Energy Commission of Russia, serving in 1999–2001 as the head of its economic analysis department.
Career and research Levinson began his career as a public finance economist, studying the role of government in the U.
Income, Wealth, and the Maximum Principle is a book geared to advanced economic students, particularly those who want to be able to formulate and solve complex allocation problems and who are interested in the relationship between income accounting and wealth or welfare.
He has been an Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Padova since 2006, specializing in energy economics and electricity market economics.
Controversy In 2013, the PhD thesis of one of his students was withdrawn one day before the scheduled defence.
Stephen Thomas is a professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, working in the area of energy policy.
In 1972, Nordhaus, along with fellow Yale economics professor James Tobin, published, "Is Growth Obsolete?", an article that introduced the Measure of Economic Welfare (MEW), or Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare (ISEW), as the first attempt to develop environmental accounting.
Rockler, "Ideal or Not Ideal Interregional Input-Output Accounts and Model", SAGE Journals, 2013-01-01 Karen R.
He worked as a renewable energy economist with the Energy Information Administration of the United States Department of Energy in Washington, DC, then returned to San Diego in 1996 to work as a City Council aide to councilmember Valerie Stallings.
Later still, Turner's taxonomy of 'weak' and 'strong' sustainability was integrated into ecological economics.
He has been cited as an authority on the social cost of carbon in media outlets like Bloomberg News, the Financial Times, and The New York Times, and published commentaries on it in Barron's.
Nordhaus graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover and subsequently received his BA and MA from Yale in 1963 and 1972, respectively, where he was a member of Skull and Bones.
Tax Waste, Not Work (with Jeff Hamond, principal author, and Peggy Duxbury, Alan Sanstad, and Christopher Stinson).
This included a recent study that showed how inventories link futures and spot prices, so that futures price speculation can have very limited (if any) impact on spot prices.
He has written chapters in books like South Asia in the Era of Globalisation: Trade, Industrialisation and Welfare; Economic Impact of Fiji's Sugar Industry, CGE Modelling and Behaviour of J-Curve.
From 2006 to 2008, he was chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers, where he argued the oil price rises of 2007 and 2008 were an unsustainable bubble.
This was in connection with an alleged scheme also involving fellow City Council members Ralph Inzunza and Charles L.
Keith, 2009, "Anticipating public attitudes to underground CO2 storage," International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control.
He served on the editorial boards of five major journals and was a member of the Swedish Board for Transportation and Communications Research.
Biography Tainter studied anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley and Northwestern University, where he received his Ph.D.
Keynote speaker, 2002 World Congress of Environmental Economists Keynote speaker, 2006 World Congress of Animal Geneticists Works Books Weitzman wrote three books: The Share Economy: Conquering Stagflation; Income, Wealth, and the Maximum Principle; and Climate Shock, jointly with Gernot Wagner.
He went on to do his graduate work at M.I.T., where he completed a master's degree in electrical engineering in 1967 and a PhD in economics in 1971.
Jaccard, 2012, "Statistical simulation to estimate uncertain behavioral parameters of hybrid energy-economy models," Environmental Modeling and Assessment.
But devious means compromise good ends, and we shall have to save Rifkin's humane conclusion from his own lamentable tactics.
The book was adapted into a PBS/BBC series seen by around 100 million viewers both domestically and internationally, with Yergin as the principal storyteller.
He is the former Global Head of Commodities Research in the Global Investment Research Division at Goldman Sachs.
He served for more than a decade on the External Advisory Council of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and was among the founding members of the International Association for Energy Economics.
Birol was named on the Time 100 list of the world's most influential people in 2021 and again in 2026, has been named by Forbes magazine among the most influential people on the world's energy scene and recognised by the Financial Times in 2017 as Energy Personality of the Year.
He taught introductory environmental science courses among other subjects dealing with energy, atmospheric change, China, population and economic development.
He was co-founder of EMBARQ, the World Resources Institute Center for Sustainable Transport, and remained as a senior associate emeritus.
Some of his arguments can seem counterintuitive, such that under current auto regulations people who don't drive much can reduce national gasoline consumption -- and pollution -- by purchasing gas guzzlers instead of more fuel-efficient cars.
Lyndon LaRouche said that Kuznetsov was one of the first to understand the principles of physical economics.
He also provides technical support for a variety of local governments in the development of energy and climate profiles, especially as they positively shape and enhance long-term Sustainable Development Goals.
Vickers retained machine guns and other restricted weapons in his personal collection, knowing the filed forms were fraudulent, and transferred other machine guns and restricted weapons to other FFLs and third parties.
His work has received both support and criticism, particularly from some conservative evangelical communities who disagree with his interpretations.
Early life and education Tomines attended the University of Waterloo, where he received his undergraduate degree in Biomedical Science.
The Order of the Good Death is Doughty's way of creating a community while teaching individuals to accept death.
The product was ultimately never released, with security concerns noted in a Kickstarter post ending the project, with Xyla returning to finish her university degree and subsequently published a description for how to build a do it yourself Parihug.
The article revealed details of her personal life, which drew criticism from Wu and from others because according to her agreement with Vice, such details should have been left out of the article, out of fear of retaliation by the Chinese government and also to protect her own private life.
YouTube channel health related podcast In September 2022, Varshavski launched a health related podcast on his YouTube channel named "The Checkup Podcast with Doctor Mike", which was renamed to "The Checkup with Doctor Mike".
Science communication While searching for a better work-life balance than that provided in research and academia, Macdonald found opportunities to still teach through a combination of conducting introductory courses and speaking at science fiction conventions.
Awards and nominations Notes References External links Official website NileRed's channel on YouTube
Kurzgesagt acknowledged they had presented one argument as fact, and had not considered other theories on the matter.
His family life is closely connected to his career, and he occasionally brings his children aboard his boat to share the experience.
In 2016 the Czech edition of Forbes featured Rubeš in their 30 under 30 list: 30 of the most talented Czechs under 30 years old.
During his early days as a YouTuber, he often recorded videos while walking through neighborhoods, or hiking, discussing general topics with a scientific and educational perspective.
Career One of the first sightings of the Mediterranean red bug in North America was recorded by Peltz, who was then working as a middle school science teacher.
Learning Processing : A Beginner's Guide to Programming Images, Animation, and Interaction (2nd ed.).
As detailed in his plea agreement, from June 2018 to March 2021 Vickers, allegedly with cooperation from Sean Reidpath Sullivan and Matthew Jeremy Hall imported machine guns and other restricted firearms under ATF Form 6 by falsely representing them as items for police department demonstration use.
The podcast covers subjects related to sexual health, mental health, physical health, and social health.
In January 2015, she defended her thesis in Earth sciences, entitled "Prediction of terrestrial convective structures", before training in scientific communication at the Institut de la communication et des médias [Fr] in Grenoble.
He has expressed a desire to pass on his knowledge and tradition to his children, while leaving the choice of pursuing lobstering to them.
They made their relationship public online in 2014, two years after starting their channel, in response to derogatory comments and in order to be visible role models for young gay people interested in science.
In 2014, he won the prize of "Person of the Year" in the 7th edition of Maroc Web Awards, Creativity category.
Vsauce3 has collaborated with YouTubers Joe Hanson from It's Okay to be Smart and Vanessa Hill from BrainCraft.
Huang is known for his "Song Challenge" series, an extension of the idea behind Songs to Wear Pants To, in which Huang takes on musical challenges submitted by viewers via social media.
Huang's channel is known for a wide variety of musical genres, influences, and projects, often thematically focused.
It is very, very hard, as any teacher will tell you, to unlearn something that makes you comfortable and makes you feel smart, but Mr.
Educational career Until 2021, Beat was a high school social studies teacher, teaching at Blue Valley High School in Overland Park, Kansas and eventually Tonganoxie High School in Tonganoxie, Kansas.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, he started "Week Week" in the Kirkland House with his friends, promoting creative methods to bring residents together.
Scott has also collaborated with other YouTubers, including his Tom Scott plus channel, several comedy series with The Technical Difficulties, and the brain-teaser podcast Lateral.
In 2025 she founded Physical Phones to manufacture and sell retro-style Bluetooth desk phones modeled on her own setup.
The most viewed video of the channel as of September 2024 is Do You Hear "Yanny" or "Laurel"?, which has 66 million views.
The episodes are released on Nebula one week earlier than YouTube, which has caused large spikes to Nebula's usage traffic in the past.
Products in the line include acne cleanser and lotion, clarifying treatment with retinol, and daily moisturizer.
On his self-titled YouTube channel, active since 2014, Scott creates educational videos across a range of topics including history, geography, linguistics, science, and technology.
His older brother, Marek Hoffman, is also a youtuber, operating the channel AdBuster, where he posts videos about brand management, product reviews, and vlogs.
She also started a joint podcast with YouTube medical popularizer Sandra Ortonobes (La Hiperactina), titled Tú de ciencias y yo de letras.
He later worked for four years at Apple as a product designer in their Special Projects Group, where he authored patents involving virtual reality in self-driving cars.
Foreman's family is Jewish, and in a statement written for the London Jewish News in 2018, he described his fondness for his family's Jewish traditions, even though Foreman himself is an atheist.
Early life Mason received a BSc (2:1) (1993) and PhD (1997) in chemistry from the University of Birmingham.
To think it does lends itself to a hyper-adaptive view of life." References External links Reich, Henry.
Vickers has an affinity for Rhodesia, and in 2017 posted a photo of a Rhodesian FAL with the caption "It's time to slot floppies.
Various media outlets have highlighted her significant following on YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok, where she has received attention for her posts aiming to educate young people about sexual health.
In mid 2024, the Awesome Coffee Club rebranded to "Keats and Co." as they began selling tea as well as coffee with a similar philosophy.
I am so proud and pleased that The Brain Scoop and Emily have found what is absolutely their best possible home." Another educational channel, Mental Floss, based on the magazine of the same name, was launched in February 2013.
In an interview with The New York Times, he said that each video takes him four to five hours to make, writing a full script and searching Google Scholar for academic papers to include as screenshots.
Vizel struggled from a young age to fit in in the community, noting in 2022 that "the female space was very suffocating" to her.
The show's format has since been modified into short documentaries exclusive to the streaming service Nebula with the same concept.
Following his studies Bonnet worked as an executive in the field of research and development at the company Sika-Trocal.
Stevens realized that his most popular content tended to incorporate more serious real-world concepts, often exhibiting interdisciplinarity.
On 23 October 2015, Furze released a video showing off the start of a new multi-part build, in which he would construct a Hidden Blade to promote the new Ubisoft game, Assassin's Creed: Syndicate.
Daniel Shiffman (born July 29, 1973) is a computer programmer, a member of the Board of Directors of the Processing Foundation, and an Associate Arts Professor at the Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) at New York University Tisch School of the Arts.
On the topic, Hank has stated, "There are problems with the institutions of dreams, [but] I am in favor of them.
The educational segments became more popular, and since September 9, 2012, only the educational segment (known as DOT.) has been presented.
She was awarded an Aurora Astronomy Scholarship that enabled her to take an overseas trip to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Caltech, Carnegie Observatory, UCLA, Macdonald Observatory Texas, University of British Columbia, NRC Observatory Victoria and CHFT Hawaii.
Foxlin was awarded the Aviation Inspiration Award from the Living Legends of Aviation in January 2026.
Petermann, "Anwenderseminar Dynamisch-Mechanische Analyse und Rheologie", ecomed Verlag, Landsberg 2000, 69–78, Hg.: H.
Every episode contains one or more experiments, in which either volunteers or Stevens himself participates, that relates to the topic of the episode.
Some of her projects are useful, while others are funny or absurd; her useful projects are usually more popular.
The paper described the podcast as having "in-depth debates and banter that is actually amusing." Grey reported a podcast listenership of approximately "a quarter million" downloads per episode as of September 2015.
Despite being raised in a Christian home, he was not openly Christian until some time before he began his musical career.
In 2021, Aleksic created an online petition to change the flag of Albany, saying that the flag was poorly designed by vexillology standards and was also linked to the Dutch Nazi Party and other white supremacist organizations.
Jet Lag: The Game Denby's YouTube channel Jet Lag: The Game hosts a travel competition show created by Denby and Half as Interesting's writers, Ben Doyle (son of writer Larry Doyle) and Adam Chase.
Reeder first gained considerable media attention in 2016, after posting a video of himself drinking water containing a small, diluted amount of cyanide.
Kampf's television career began with co-hosting the competition series Schrott or Not on KiKa in 2017, and she has hosted a segment on Die Sendung mit der Maus called Lauras Machgeschichten since 2018.
The Polish Investment and Trade Agency exhibited her works in Berlin, Hamburg, Helsinki, Geneva, and Madrid to promote Polish design.
In 2021 he was nominated for the Estonian Science Communication Award as the best communicator of science and technology.
Typical topics include technology etiquette; movie and TV show reviews; plane accidents; vexillology; futurology; and the differences between Grey's and Haran's personalities and lifestyles.
Her tours focus on "the Hasidic lifestyle and the reasons behind the community’s insular nature", and she purposefully tries to avoid critique or judgment of Hasidic culture.
He won the Wiki Science Competition 2017 in the category of non-photographic media with a video of a frozen drop of water in a frigid environment.
In January 2014, Amy Wallace, another science journalist, wrote an article about how science journalists can find themselves the target of ugly personal attacks, and the attacks on female journalists include criticisms of their sexual attractiveness, and their sexual morality.
She was originally photographed "in a pressed collared shirt, slacks and matching jewelry", but felt she was misrepresenting herself; Doe returned to the shoot hours later, stripped to her underwear, and slathered herself in homemade mud to retake the photos.
The contestants are led to believe that they are competing in a social deduction game, in which one of the group has become a secret saboteur among them (much like The Mole or The Traitors), with the rest of them working collaboratively in challenges they are tasked to complete during their trip.
The live performances returned in March 2020 with a planned three-city tour including stops in Columbus, Ohio, and Carmel, Indiana, with a third performance set for Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Education Baxter completed bachelor's and master's degrees in biology at Buffalo State College in 2014 and 2016, respectively.
Foreman has no plans to bring the series back, stating that "with everything that’s going on, I now find it impossible, irresponsible even, to maintain the cheery, neutral tone that the series used to have." Map Men Map Men is an edutainment mini-series which premiered in 2016.
sanctions against JSC Kalashnikov Concern between July 2014 and March 2021, in the Southern District of Florida.
In 2017, he appeared on MythBusters: The Search as a contestant and in 2020, Pan built a gun that shoots masks onto people's faces to protect them from COVID-19.
Later, on October 29, 2021, Rober and Donaldson created #TeamSeas, another fundraiser which had a goal of $30 million.
He has discussed the physical demands and risks of lobstering, including the dangers of being caught in ropes and the challenges posed by Maine’s limited-entry licensing system.
Notable collaborations Santoro has been a special guest narrator on CinemaSins' Everything Wrong With...
In 2019, she teamed up with Sébastien Carassou for the international science film festival, and their script on paleoclimatology won the Science & Live TV – Science "shorts" prize.
In 2023, Hendy appeared on season 5 of the travel competition show Jet Lag: The Game, which was filmed in New Zealand.
"Populism, Technology and Interactivity: Review." New York Times, Lateition (East Coast) ed.: NJ.13.
He now helps students communicate mathematics to other people, speaks at schools, does media work, and occasionally writes about maths.
He received letters of encouragement from President Joe Biden and NASA administrator and former Florida Senator Bill Nelson.
He competed on the same team as Sam Denby against Adam Chase and Ben Doyle in racing to claim the most countries in the Schengen Area within six days.
In another video, Foxlin went on a cross country road trip through the southern and western United States, collecting a piece of wood from trees grown in each of the states, which she machined into wooden puzzle pieces of a map of the country.
After leaving Kiryas Joel, Vizel joined another Orthodox community, but has since left Orthodox Judaism altogether.
Several videos on the channel feature Savage donning cosplay that conceals his identity and walking across comic convention floors.
Stevens' online content attracted the interest of Ben Relles, who invited him to become a member of the online comedy group then known as Barely Political.
Turntable Health In 2012, Tony Hsieh invited Damania to visit Las Vegas, where Hsieh was in the process of investing $350 million of his own money in a project he hoped would revitalize Downtown Las Vegas (The Downtown Project).
Some of their videos are also available in French, Hindi, Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Japanese and Korean.
Similar experiments however, such as him drinking heavy water, "hydric acid" (tongue-in-cheek), and breathing in all the noble gases, remain available as of January 2021.
Following her graduation from UCLA, she received Suborbital Citizen Scientist Astronaut Training with Project PoSSUM.
On September 20, 2018, Roper announced he would host the YouTube Original special Could You Survive the Movies.
Career In early 2012, Varshavski joined Instagram to document his life as a medical student and combat the notion that "you can't have a life in medical school".
Business ventures Education In 2019, Huang partnered with Studio (formerly Monthly) to create a 30-day music production course called Complete Music Production.
A new branding scheme designed by Natasha Jen was adopted in December 2014 to bring a "grown-up" feel to the channels.
In April 2021, Rober and Jimmy Kimmel hosted a live stream, raising $3 million in support of NEXT for AUTISM.
Popular culture The Comedy Central game show @midnight mentioned her growing Instagram popularity during an opening segment.
He designed and delivered hardware on several JPL missions, including AMT, GRAIL, SMAP, and Mars Science Laboratory.
In 2009, the record label caught the attention of YouTube, who praised the label on its official blog.
His channel initially released video game-related content until the popularity of his educational series DOT saw discussions of general interest become the focus of Vsauce, encompassing explanations of science, philosophy, culture, and illusion.
The goal was to raise $20,000,000 for the Arbor Day Foundation by 2020, while the Arbor Day Foundation would plant one tree for each dollar raised.
It has been awarded grants by Bill Gates' bgC3, and has struck a partnership with PBS Digital Studios to continue developing more series, although the majority of its funding comes from viewer support via Patreon.
Early career In 2012, Scott was a presenter in the Sky 1 series Gadget Geeks alongside Colin Furze and Creative Technologist Charles Yarnold, where he was responsible for the creation of software solutions.
Following ten years of Cortex, CGP Grey announced a break from Cortex, with the podcast temporarily switching to an interview format.
In December 2023, Wu was named as the new maintainer of The Essential Guide to Electronics in Shenzhen, a print book that provides guidance for electronics industry business in Shenzhen and especially Huaqiangbei.
Vizel has offered tours of Williamsburg professionally since 2013, and began giving tours full time in 2017.
A fifth-generation lobsterman, he documents his work and sustainable fishing practices through videos shared on platforms like TikTok, Instagram, and YouTube, where he has amassed a following.
Nidhal Guessoum (Arabic: نضال قسوم, romanised: Niḍāl Qassūm; born September 6, 1960) is an Algerian astrophysicist.
Myers' blog were "among the two most popular secularist hubs online." Mason has used his online persona to critically examine a range of topics, including proposals to build roads surfaced with glass solar panels.
Vickers faces a maximum sentence of five years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate federal law regulating automatic firearms and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The costumes were widely featured on news channels such as CBS News, CNN, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Fox, Yahoo!
This was the fifth crewed flight operated by Blue Origin, and their 21st flight overall to reach space.
He also participated in Birthright Israel, a free ten-day trip to Israel for Jewish adults between the ages of 18 and 26.
In September 2015, Scott created a full-size emoji keyboard out of fourteen standard keyboards to type every standard Unicode emoji.
Larry Vickers is the author of the "Vickers Guide", a series of reference books that launched in 2015, detailing firearms such as the Colt AR-15, M1911, and MP 40.
Mason is a British chemist and YouTuber with the online pseudonym Thunderf00t (also VoiceOfThunder).
The modifications were performed by her, Kampf, mechanic Marcos Ramirez, and YouTuber Rich Benoit, whose channel Rich Rebuilds often featured the modification of Teslas; several other friends were informally involved.
The agents, equipped with geiger counters, did not find anything of concern, and Reeder himself said that they were only trying to help him not get in trouble in the future.
Early life and career William Henry Green II was born on May 5, 1980, to Mike and Sydney Green in Birmingham, Alabama, but his family soon moved to Orlando, Florida, where he was raised.
In 2017, Echazarreta was a research assistant at UCLA for the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science, where she experimented with various materials to serve as both the PCB and body of the robot while maintaining electrically isolated portions.
The semimagic square Parker created uses some numbers more than once, and the diagonal 232 + 372 + 472 sums to 4107, not 3051 as for all the other rows, columns, or diagonal.
Collaborations Some people or channels Michael Stevens of Vsauce1 has collaborated with include Bill Nye, BrainCraft, Derek Muller, Good Mythical Morning, The Filthy Frank Show, and others.
Her dissertation was titled "Culturally responsive Science Communication: The messengers, messages, and voices in communicating science through Hip-Hop".
Parker has also toured the UK solo and as part of comedy group Festival of the Spoken Nerd, along with Helen Arney and Steve Mould.
In 2021, Muller hosted Pindrop, a YouTube Original series exploring unusual places around the world, as seen from Google Earth.
Usui gained attention in February 2023 for her detailed explanation of the aborted first launch attempt of the first H3 test rocket, and in March 2023 for her call to support JAXA after the failed second launch attempt.
Channel BrainCraft videos are about science, with many episodes discussing phenomena related to sleep, memory, and the science of food.
In December of that year, she created a Patreon account to receive money directly from viewers while announcing a deal with GoldieBlox to release child-appropriate edits of her videos.
The channels feature videos on scientific, psychological, mathematical, and philosophical topics, as well as gaming, technology, popular culture, and other general interest subjects.
He also held visiting professorships at the German-Jordanian University in Jordan and the Beijing University of Chemical Technology in China.
The film was scheduled to be released on May 8, 2020, after having been initially scheduled in November 2019, but was later postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in India.
The game is often themed, and consists of five rounds of two statements each, relating to the theme, with one statement being true, and the other being false.
Crawford is a public educator on his YouTube channel where he lectures on Old Norse language and discusses literature and mythology.
The production company behind these is Pemberley Digital, which according to Hank Green's Reddit userpage, he helped co-create.
On April 8, 2024, Denby's production company, Wendover Productions, announced production on The Getaway, a reality game show which premiered exclusively on Nebula in July 2024.
In a Q&A video, he clarified that the last place he lived in before moving to the United States was the city of Donetsk in Ukraine.
Echazarreta transferred to UCLA in 2016, completing her Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 2019.
On International Women's Day 2017 she was listed as one of the 43 most influential women in 3D printing, a male-dominated field, by 3D Printer & 3D Printing News.
They upload videos twice a week, having “normal” episodes about a certain topic, and “field notes” episodes in which they answer viewers' questions and share things they own or have found.
Nonetheless, Green's novels have been successful, leading him to be included on Time's 2014 "100 Most Influential People" list.
Beat posts various videos on the channel relating to United States government and history - especially regarding United States presidents.
At Christmas time in 2021, along with Joe Barnard, she launched a seven foot tall Christmas tree 300 feet into the air, with a "rocket stuffed up its ...
Since 2012 Bonnet is a visiting professor at the institute for Biomechanics and Orthopaedics at German Sports University Cologne.
Prehistoric Road Trip In May 2019, Graslie announced that she would be producing and hosting a 3-hour series, on paleontology in the American Midwest, for PBS and WTTW; filming took place throughout 2019.
While at Tonganoxie High School, Beat and his students petitioned United States President Barack Obama to visit the school in 2015, but the effort was unsuccessful.
He is managing director of the Institute for Applied Materials at the Cologne University of Applied Sciences where he also teaches materials science.
in Classics and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics from Texas Tech University; an M.A.
While at university, Parker wrote comedy for Pelican, the students' magazine, and produced comedy sketches.
Foxlin's appeal to the FAA was successful in 2025 and she was issued a special medical certificate, and she subsequently flew across the continential United States in her Cessna 140.
Club and Newsweek reported on a video of him dissolving a hot dog in piranha solution, which went viral.
Awards 2022 Woman of Distinction Award from the American Association of University Women Ebony Magazine Power 100 Trailblazer in STEM 2022 Named to Forbes Magazine's 30 Under 30 in Science 2020 Named to Fortune Magazine's 40 Under 40 in Health 2018 Arthur A.
Pac Tom project In 2006, Murphy started a project of running every mile of every street in the city of Pittsburgh: over 1,500 miles in total.
He is also the co-founder of merchandise company DFTBA Records, crowdfunding platform Subbable (acquired by Patreon), game company DFTBA Games, and online video production company Pemberley Digital, which produces video blog adaptations of classic novels in the public domain.
In October 2020, Peltz joined Discovery Education as Mystery Science became a wholly owned subsidiary; Mystery Science was acquired for $140 million.
Cath in College was a vlog and blog that presented her Stanford experience in a diary-like style, showing scenes such as studying, parties and dorm life alongside reader Q&As.
His 2014 "Evolution vs Natural Selection" video on the MinutePhysics channel received criticism from the NCSE.
“It was definitely an obstacle for me to learn about a brand new culture and to learn a brand new language.
"Wipe It Down," Baxter's parody of Lil Boosie's "Wipe Me Down," contained information and safety tips related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
She transitioned to a full-time engineer at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory as part of the Europa Clipper Ground Support Equipment group.
In April 2022, The Anthropocene Reviewed was chosen to be the 2022 common read at the University of Mississippi.
Echazarreta has spoken to Mexico's congresses Senate of the Republic and Chamber of Deputies in support of increasing STEM education for women and expanding Mexico's spaceflight program.
As revealed in a behind-the-scenes video, Moffit voices and composes the background music for the videos, while Brown is the primary illustrator.
market and fill the gap left by the sanctions against Kalashnikov Concern" named "American Kalashnikov." Vickers had met with Kalashnikov Concern executives in North Carolina and started to receive consulting fees from American Kalashnikov starting from 2014.
Early life Vizel's paternal grandfather became Satmar following the Holocaust, and her father grew up in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
He was also nominated to awards Tech Awards 2017, Popularyzator Nauki 2018, and Grand Video Awards 2022.
Early life and education Graslie earned her bachelor's degree in Studio Art from the University of Montana in 2011.
Peter Hadfield (born 1 July 1954) is a British freelance journalist, author, and geologist, who runs the YouTube channel Potholer54, which has over 200,000 subscribers.
In 2017, Muller began uploading videos on his newest channel, Sciencium, which is dedicated to videos on recent and historical discoveries in science.
His Instagram account went viral after he was featured in BuzzFeed and People magazine named him The Sexiest Doctor Alive in 2015.
Muller presented in the film Vitamania: The Sense and Nonsense of Vitamins, a documentary by Genepool Productions, released in August 2018.
He also funded 100 abortions for Ukrainian women in Poland, who were raped by Russian soldiers, citing and criticising laws which make it difficult for them to get treatment.
Her November 27, 2013, video, which addressed the situation of women in STEM fields and inappropriate comments she received on her own postings, received a high level of media attention.
Beauty and the Bolt With a classmate, she launched a 501-c(3) non-profit called Beauty and the Bolt to empower women and minorities to excel in engineering.
He later earned a Master of Science in mechanical engineering from the University of Southern California (USC) in 2014.
In November 2023, Green joined a lawsuit by Penguin Random House, the Iowa State Education Association, and fellow authors Laurie Halse Anderson, Malinda Lo, and Jodi Picoult, against the state of Iowa over a new law that banned books that depict sex acts from schools.
in curriculum, instruction, and the science of learning from the University at Buffalo, and was awarded the SUNY Chancellor's Award for Student Excellence.
AsapScience, stylized as AsapSCIENCE, is a YouTube channel created by Canadian YouTubers Mitchell Moffit and Gregory Brown.
He went to college in upstate New York, earning two degrees: one in physics and another in sociology.
Keller stated that these efforts were intended to pressure Mason to change what she considered sexist and islamophobic content on his channel.
She received a Bachelors of Science in Psychology from Texas A&M University before pursuing postgraduate medical studies at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, where she received her Doctorate of Medicine.
Kurzgesagt made this statement in response to a December 2022 video which accused them of having been "basically bought off by billionaires".
In 2014, her channel "The Brain Scoop" was listed on New Media Rockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at #96.
In December 2018, Rober posted a video showing how he tricked parcel thieves with an engineered contraption that sprayed glitter on the thieves, emitted a foul odor, and captured video of the thieves.
He completed all coursework towards a Master of Music at Indiana University Bloomington, but did not graduate.
The official response stated it would be too costly to replace the current signs; however, Parker said he only asked for a "precedent for the new signs".
Shiffman received a BA in Mathematics and Philosophy from Yale University and a master's degree from the ITP.
Parker has made videos about unboxing calculators, including the Little Professor; he presents these videos as a member of a fictional "Calculator Appreciation Society".
Adam Viktor Aleksic ( ə-LEK-sik; born January 3, 2001), known online as Etymology Nerd, is an American linguist and content creator who produces videos exploring the origins of words.
Hill's videos use stop motion and paper craft animation to explain neuroscience, psychology and human behavior.
Career Prior to working on YouTube, Roper used his film degree for various jobs in television and advertising.
In 2011 Mould and Parker together started MathsGear.co.uk, a website aimed at selling stuff they prepare for their mathematics shows.
Ragusea announced that he would drop from his usual 2 videos a week along with the podcast to only 1 video a week plus the podcast on December 19, 2022, in a video titled "The next phase of our relationship".
The channel was created in May 2012 and had acquired more than 7 million subscribers by March 2018, and 10 million by 2025.
Together with his brother, Marek Hoffmann, he also hosts YouTube channel Tube Raiders, where they publish travel and urban exploration vlogs, which in January 2026, had 345,000 subscribers.
BrainCraft is an educational video series on YouTube created by Australian science communicator Vanessa Hill.
He has four degrees, in law, economics, business, and sociology, including from the University of Southampton, London School of Economics, and Warwick Business School.
Stevens, in the video "A Defense of Comic Sans", notes that the text font Alsina was used by the Vsauce channels because of its close resemblance to the handwriting of Nik Guinta, the creator of the original Vsauce logo.
Since then, videos on topics such as the greenhouse effect, the age of the universe, and several on black holes have been released.
Creationism Through his YouTube account Thunderf00t, Mason produced a series of videos titled "Why do people laugh at creationists?", focusing primarily on Kent Hovind's arguments in public seminars.
Pan originally received media attention in late 2015 after uploading a viral video of him creating a real-life version of the superhero Thor's hammer Mjolnir, which only he can pick up.
'The Number of Galaxies in a Grain of Sand'), and in hobby, for the Tube Raiders video Umocnienia helskie (lit.
On December 15, 2024, a reporter for the Kyiv Independent criticized a video by Harris that attributed the Russo-Ukrainian war largely to NATO expansion.
Politics Unboringed Politics Unboringed was a series of educational YouTube videos that ran between 2015 and 2017.
His book The Wanderer's Hávamál (2019) includes the Old Norse text of the poem Hávamál with Crawford's page-facing English translation along with commentary, a few brief Old Norse texts about Odin, and the Cowboy Hávamál, which is Crawford's translation of Gestaþáttr into his grandfather's dialect.
The Rest Is Science The Rest Is Science is a podcast hosted by Michael Stevens and Professor Hannah Fry, and is about varied topics in math and science.
He collaborated with the highest-subscribed channel MrBeast in 2026, creating a video on the history of YouTube and joking about name similarities.
While at GPB, he served as the organization's Macon Bureau Chief and host of the local Morning Edition.
At the 2012 Science Online conference, the video "Mission Possible: Graphene" won the Cyberscreen Science Film Festival, and was therefore featured on Scientific American as the video of the week.
Before working with Michael Stevens under the Vsauce brand, Roper was working at Google, alongside Stevens, as well as hosting a YouTube show called Space Lab, which was a space show for kids.
Guessoum is also a columnist for Gulf News and The Huffington Post, and has made notable contributions to Nature Middle East.
She was given the British Council ELTon Award for Innovation in English language teaching in 2017 and the Entrepreneurial Award by the University of Westminster in 2018.
She began to question other aspects of community life and custom following continued pressure from the community.
Honest Guide Since 2016, he has published his most popular series Honest Guide with his cameraman friend Honza Mikulka on YouTube.
Career In 2014, Mould co-hosted ITV's I Never Knew That About Britain alongside Paul Martin and Suzannah Lipscomb.
The channel was renamed to D!NG on May 12, 2019, seemingly due to the channel being demonetized for having a name that was not considered advertiser-friendly.
Alkali metals research Mason, on his own and with some fellow technical workers, did original physical chemistry research into the nature of the alkali metals (sodium and potassium, for example) and their chemistry with oxygen and water.
She worked on a sixteen-episode show, Schrott or Not ("Trash or Not"), which she cohosted with Johannes Büchs.
He and one of his university colleagues looked through a book containing chemical names and started with "N" because his name began with the same letter.
MinutePhysics was one of the original founders of the Standard creator community along with Dave Wiskus, CGP Grey, Philipp Dettmer and many other creators.
The event was organized as part of the Andromeda Initiative, in cooperation between the European Space Agency and Electronic Arts, to promote the release of action role-playing video game Mass Effect: Andromeda.
Muller moved to Australia to study film-making; however, he instead enrolled for a PhD in physics education research from the University of Sydney, which he completed in 2008 with the thesis, Designing Effective Multimedia for Physics Education.
Green served on the advisory board alongside Burnie Burns, Akilah Hughes, Casey Neistat, and Louise Pentland.
He is a fifth-generation lobsterman, part of a family tradition extending back several generations in Winter Harbor and neighboring harbors.
As part of the deal, the Green brothers received a small portion of Patreon and Hank signed on as an unpaid advisor.
Current work Daniel Shiffman is currently focused on developing tutorials, examples, and libraries for Processing, the open source programming environment created by Casey Reas and Ben Fry.
Within its first year of operation, the channel was followed by 100,000 viewers and she decided to focus on turning it into a full-time job and business.
Grey's video Humans Need Not Apply was covered by Business Insider and Huffington Post, and his animated video of Nick Bostrom's "The Fable of the Dragon-Tyrant" was "unanimously praised" by the Life Extension Advocacy Foundation.
Shift toward larger projects (2018–2021) Increase in production value and astronaut training series As her popularity increased, Giertz received sponsorships from large companies such as Ericsson, Google, and Audible.
As of February 12, 2026, the channel has over 993 thousand subscribers, 107 videos, and more than 132 million total video views.
Macdonald did post-doctoral work with the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) collaboration as part of an attempt to detect gravitational waves from the Crab Pulsar.
When he was in middle school, Vickers decided that he wanted to join the United States Army Special Forces, and gained an interest in firearms during this period.
As of February 12, 2026, Denby has accumulated more than 1.7 billion views and over 8.8 million subscribers across all of his YouTube channels.
His role focuses on Google's YouTube platform, including meeting with fellow content creators to optimize their videos' effectiveness.
The week prior to the 2022 Project for Awesome, Partners In Health co-founder Paul Farmer unexpectedly died at the age of 62.
During this period, John "found politics boring and divisive", believing that politics and voting were a waste of his time.
After making a video explaining the new YouTube Red service to confused YouTube creators, he realized an organization representing them would better serve their needs.
Adam Ragusea ( rə-GOO-see-ə; born March 22, 1982) is an American YouTuber and educator who creates videos about food recipes, food science, and culinary culture.
She is married to Lucie Gabriela Career Cornwell began her eponymous YouTube channel in 2013, where she originally documented her time studying law at the University of Bristol.
Recent research directed by Dodds has been commented on in The New York Times, Smithsonian Magazine, and other media.
In ten years the channel evolved from a passion project worked on during Dettmer's free time to a design studio with about seventy on the team.
After leaving Vox, Harris produced several video essays for the Opinion section of The New York Times.
Since September 2011, he is part of the educational project Academia Vasquez, responsible for video production of algebra and representative of Colombia said educational project.
Experiments Having joined YouTube in 2011, Reeder initially began posting videos of his experiments to show to his grandmother: "I would do science experiments all the time anyway ...
As of October 2025, he has 481,000 subscribers on his personal YouTube channel and 325,000 subscribers on his interview channel Event Horizon.
Because of her ease in front of the camera, enthusiasm, and fan comments, Graslie was asked to create her own YouTube channel, "The Brain Scoop", as a part of the Nerdfighter family.
Also in 2020, Baxter was recognized as an emerging leader in the field of healthcare, when USA Fortune Magazine named her to their "40 Under 40 in Health".
Jean has been educating for over 40 years and has created many resources for teachers in the classroom with their students.
He became interested in engineering at a young age, making a pair of goggles that helped avoid eye irritation while cutting onions.
Carroll in a five-part video series on time and entropy and with Grant Sanderson on a video about a lost lecture of physicist Richard Feynman, as well as a video about Bell's Theorem.
Taras Vladimirovich Kulakov (born March 11, 1987), better known as CrazyRussianHacker, is a Ukrainian-born Russian-American YouTuber of mixed Russian and Ukrainian descent.
He also created miniseries such as videos dedicated to debunking modern flat Earth beliefs, and a documentary series dedicated to the Titan submersible, and its implosion in 2023, during an expedition to view the wreck of the Titanic.
presidency, with songs about all of the former presidents and a series chronicling every presidential election in American history.
After a brief interregnum, the channel relaunched in March 2017 with Hank Green hosting alongside Rachel Calderon Navarro.
Ernst was struck by the enthusiastic response from young women and girls who approached her, expressing a desire to learn to code specifically to create similar projects.
Social media In 2009, Jones began posting on social media about medical topics as a medical student with two goals: provide the public with accurate medical information and provide a "traveling CV" of her work.
He has also spoken at events for Adweek, VidCon, MIPTV Media Market, the Edinburgh International Television Festival, and for Novo Nordisk as a diabetes educator.
Boxing career Varshavski made his amateur boxing debut in May 2022 against influencer iDubbbz as the headline fight in the Creator Clash boxing event.
At the time, Sullivan was the owner of Trident Rifles in Gambrills, Maryland and an intelligence analyst for the Department of Homeland Security, while Hall was chief of police in Coats, North Carolina.
On May 21, 2020, the show was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award in the category "Outstanding Educational or Informational Series", which it won.
Event Horizon publishes interviews with some of the most well-known scientists in the world, including Nobel-winning physicist Frank Wilczek, NASA Chief Scientist James Green and the Harvard Professor Avi Loeb.
Amy Scribner of BookPage described it as "a fun, illuminating read," but also noted that some parts were "a bummer" because they looked at radicalization and harmful ideas online.
Green himself also saw a significant increase in his fame, with the Indianapolis Business Journal noting that he had much more "visibility and presence in his fans' lives" than other contemporaneous authors with equal or greater book sales.
More recently, he has contributed regularly to the CBC, NPR, and BBC radio programmes Costing The Earth, Science in Action, The World Tonight, Outlook and East Asia Today, as well as the ABC's Science Show.
She cleaned new specimens, gave tours, trained new interns, and acted as a teaching assistant for a class at the University of Montana.
The British newspaper The Independent named him and Honza Mikulka "the patron saints of Prague tourism".
At the end of 2017, the CNRS launched the popular science YouTube channel Zeste de science, hosted by Léa Bello, where, in "an offbeat tone, she presents ongoing research or a recent discovery".
The group has made seven albums, Ten Hours, Gourmet Ravioli, Gotta Record Everything Good, Chaos, Across the Road, Round 6, and One Week, all written and recorded in a day each.
The channel also explains the economic disadvantages of US one-cent coins in a video titled Death to Pennies.
In 2017, Hendy started a PhD at ANU focusing on using nanoindentation to examine the mechanical response of plant cells to applied pressure.
Beginning with the annual Project for Awesome fundraiser in 2013, Partners In Health received $50,000 as one of the community-chosen charities.
But you know, he sends me his records and all that stuff." Discography Albums Source: Additional credits Kiss – Carnival of Souls: The Final Sessions References External links Ken Tamplin discography at Discogs Ken Tamplin at AllMusic Ken Tamplin at IMDb Profile at No Life Til Metal
Career After Santoro graduated from Brock University with a Master of Accountancy in 2010, he became an accountant.
It shared how the human body responds to COVID-19 and how effective the measures are in evading SARS-CoV-2.
Career He has been professor in colleges and universities, such as "Colegio Hebreo Jorge Isaacs" the "Corporación Universitaria Minuto de Dios" and the Faculty of Medicine Universidad San Martín in Cali.
He says there is a great interest in Old Norse material, but much of what can be found on the Internet is unreliable, and he wants to provide accessible information that is separate from both popular culture and mystical practices.
For example, in episode one, Stevens locks himself in an empty room for three days in order to investigate the effects of social isolation on the brain.
He tearfully talked about an unnamed romantic partner, whom he claimed was manipulative and forced him to turn his friends and family away in favour of her and she had also psychologically and physically abused him during their relationship.
In January 2015, he started the channel Astrofaza (from Latin astrum 'star', and Polish faza 'craving'), in which he began posting popular science educational videos about astronomy and space exploration, as well, as streaming video games, such as Kerbal Space Program.
CGP Grey is an Irish–American educational YouTuber, podcaster, and live streamer based in the United Kingdom who creates explanatory videos on subjects including politics, geography, economics, sociology, history, philosophy, and culture.
Early and personal life Kulakov was born in the Soviet Union on March 11, 1987, into a mixed Russian and Ukrainian family.
In a tweet published on August 15, 2021, Santoro announced that he was leaving YouTube after 10 years of uploading, in favor of streaming on Twitch.
In 2013, Stevens stated that he researches on Wikipedia and academic papers to find information for his videos.
Vsauce () is a YouTube brand created by American educator Michael Stevens consisting of the eponymous channel plus five other spin-offs.
At the time, he worked as a marketer and photographer in Gdańsk, later ending his employment and moving back to Płock, to focus on developing the channel.
The same year, ahead of her fortieth birthday, she posted a video in which she built a mobile sandwich toaster.
He's currently working towards an Instrument Rating and also owns an Aerospool WT9 Dynamic light sport aircraft which appears in a number of videos.
He uses earnings from these partnerships to support his family and crew, which includes a videographer added in 2023.
Hill, manager Max Simmons, illustrator Luka Sarlija, editor Moffit and Brown are an openly gay couple who met while studying biology at the University of Guelph.
In the past she was also a television presenter, among others, hosting shows such as Na gapę for Canal+, Przytul mnie for Polsat, Pytanie na śniadanie for Polish Television, and Good Morning TVN for TVN.
Criticism Swinga has been criticized for what was described as a "demagogic" and "superficial" tackling of some topics.
In late 2016, she and German YouTuber Laura Kampf published a video in which they built "The Pussy Grabs Back Machine"—a reference to a comment by then-presidential candidate Donald Trump—that used a rubber hand to hit the groin of a person who grabbed the groin of the wearer.
In 2016, the Art Libraries Society of North America criticised the studio's occasional lack of credible sources and professional consultation, and use of emotive language.
Mind Field and Brain Candy Live (2016–present) In 2016, former MythBusters co-host Adam Savage stated that he would join Stevens on a stage tour in 2017.
His most popular series, titled Career Ladder, focuses on him attempting to guess careers of people met on the street under two minutes, while standing with them on a ladder.
The channel has been featured by The Times, ITV News, BBC News, Business Insider, and Tages-Anzeiger Panorama.
Mould's motive for starting the website was the constant inquiry from people to buy the stuff used in their shows.
He has collaborated in several researches related to big data problems in areas as language, stories, sociotechnical systems, complex systems, Earth science, biology, and ecology.
Tamplin signed a solo recording contract with Frontline Records, releasing the album An Axe To Grind in 1990.
References This article draws heavily on the corresponding article in the Spanish-language Wikipedia, which was accessed in the version of 3/2014.
He has described his YouTube videos as, "dubious quality, questionable integrity and unethical delivery".
The first season ran in early 2017, the second season from late 2017 to early 2018, and the third from late 2018 to early 2019.
Santoro retired with the title of #1 "most loved" Periscoper in the world with over 177 million hearts on the live streaming app Periscope on November 11, 2015.
Following her tweet floating an idea for a Dirty Jobs spin-off called "Nerdy Jobs", Baxter was contacted by fellow science communicator and Crash Course host Hank Green with an offer to fund a pilot.
In mid-2023, Green was a leading figure in a successful campaign to persuade pharmaceutical company Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to allow generic versions of the tuberculosis drug bedaquiline to be produced, allowing increased global access to the drug.
On November 25, 2015, Roper announced on his side channel that he had a rare form of cancer called a sarcoma.
In 2017, he published 37-minute-long educational film about the black holes, titled Black Holes: Masters of Time and Space, which was awarded with a Grand Video Award in the popular science category.
After her residency finished, she went to San Diego to further her experience with laser, dermatological and cosmetic surgery.
She presented the educational YouTube channel called "The Brain Scoop" until 2021 and also hosted portions of the Big History series featured on the Crash Course YouTube channel.
In March 2023, Osman announced Open Sauce, a creator and maker convention inspired by Maker Faire and VidCon.
In April 2025, Ernst was a keynote speaker for the Women In Tech Sweden conference, where she emphasized the shared themes between textiles and computing.
She then started her own channel and began releasing a series titled "Art Lab", focusing on the intersection between science and art.
The following month, Kampf appeared with American maker Adam Savage on his Tested.com series One Day Builds, creating a tape dispenser that holds multiple rolls.
He often collaborates musically with Southern California DJ and producer samix, who produced the album Midriff Music by Josh Martinez which won the category "Best Rap Recording" award at the 2005 Western Canadian Music Awards.
This early experience was primarily educational but also introduced him to the business aspects of lobstering.
Kenneth Robert Tamplin, known professionally as Ken Tamplin, is an American vocal coach and former Christian rock musician.
Foxlin's 3D printed statue was also displayed at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., in March, 2022 within the full #IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit, featuring 120 3D printed statues displayed in celebration of Women's History Month.
The origins of many recently adapted genes have now been traced to this period, creating effects such as regional differences in skin colour and skeletal gracility.
He argues that the event was an exceedingly improbable one and questions the likelihood of it having happened elsewhere in the Universe.
The book was described as having significant, "broad" coverage, but not as much "depth", making it a potential resource for students and researchers looking to find more-detailed references.
Only A Theory: Evolution and the Battle for America's Soul is a 2008 book by the American cell biologist and Roman Catholic Kenneth R.
Despite this, the review recognised the book's call for altruistic education and reform as sincere, though doubted its practical impact.
"You did it yourself in nine months" discusses developmental biology, especially the work of Lewis Wolpert.
Oppenheimer writes that there was only one migration out of Africa that contributed to the peopling of the rest of the world.
rex and the Crater of Doom is a nonfiction book by UC Berkeley professor Walter Alvarez that was published by Princeton University Press in 1997.
Originally, the pamphlet was prepared as a lecture delivered by Pannekoek within the circles of the social-democratic parties of the Netherlands and Germany.
The book received positive blurbs from linguists Noam Chomsky and Norbert Hornstein, professor of evolutionary genetics Gabriel Dover, and professor of cell biology and anatomy Stuart Newman.
Around 1959 or 1960, as more and larger invertebrate groups were being addressed, the incompleteness of the then-current state of affairs became apparent.
In December 2004 the National Academy of Sciences held a colloquium in honour of Mayr's 100th birthday at the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Center of the National Academies of Science and Engineering in Irvine, California.
For decades the most enlightened writers in the fields of science and religion had accepted that much of the Old Testament, and Genesis in particular, had to be read in a metaphorical sense...
Much of the book is devoted to his research team's efforts at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology towards mapping the Neanderthal genome as part of the Neanderthal genome project.
Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist contains a reassessment of previous evidence regarding the mechanisms of biological evolution.
“Over evolutionary time, predators get better at catching prey, which prompts prey animals to get better at evading capture.” He examines cruelty in nature, such as Ichneumonidae, wasps that lay their larva in live caterpillars, which they consume from the inside out.
The devastation precipitates a war with Earth's colonies on the outer planets, with whom a struggle for control of the solar system existed.
Work on the book proved difficult at times, according to illustrator Borin Van Loon, as the schedule of the author Jonathan Miller was, "always taken up with lighting Rigoletto at the Royal Opera House or making a television series on the human body.
Fisher, and Julian Huxley, all touching on the biological basis of human society, followed by Konrad Lorenz, Desmond Morris and Robert Ardrey in the 1960s, and Richard Dawkins and David Barash in the 1970s.
This would be an ESS if any one cowardly frog that does not fight to the death always fares worse (in terms of evolutionary survival fitness).
A glass of water at 20 degrees Celsius will have the same amount of energy as a glass divided in half with the top fluid at 30 degrees and the bottom at 10, but only in the second glass will the top half have the capacity to do work upon the bottom.
Now, Treatise Online publishes sections of upcoming Treatise volumes as individual articles when they are ready, rather than waiting for an entire volume to be completed.
Further, he charged that prevailing theories did not mesh with Native American oral traditions, which he contended contain no accounts of inter-continental migration.
It went through three editions (1933, 1945, 1966) and for many years constituted a very authoritative work and the definitive coverage of the subject.
He touches upon his personal life, reflecting on his father, the chemist Sune Bergström, with whom he had a relatively distant relationship, and on his own marriage and son.
In addition, the boundary prevents the first reaction from completely consuming all of the available substrate in the environment.
He introduces sexual selection, “selective breeding by females of males.” This leads to natural selection, in which “nature is the selecting agent.” "Silence and slow time" examines the age of the Earth and geologic time.
See also Charles Darwin Evolutionary psychology Sociobiology The Territorial Imperative, 1966 book by Robert Ardrey The Moral Animal, 1994 book by Robert Wright Notes and references Notes References External links The Naked Ape 1973 at IMDb , and review
It has been cited over 200 times and has a major influence on extended evolutionary synthesis research.
His book was written whilst he was Secretary to the Zoological Society of London, and made use of his remarkable collection of reprints covering the first part of the century.
Two court cases in the 1980s related to evolution vs creationism codified scientific principle into law.
Yule stating that "Oceans of Kansas offers a well researched and often engaging account of the paleobiology of the Western Interior Seaway...".
The British paleontologist Darren Naish praised the artwork, particularly that the book included depictions of several dinosaurs only rarely (and in some cases never) illustrated prior, though he also found the illustrations to be "shrink-wrapped" (reconstructed with too little soft tissue).
Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History is a 1989 book on the evolution of Cambrian fauna by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.
Wesson argues that reductionism is inadequate and looks for chaos theory as an example of a different approach that is needed to explain evolution.
Levitin identifies six fundamental song functions or types (friendship, joy, comfort, religion, knowledge, and love) then shows how each in its own way has enabled the social bonding necessary for human culture and society to evolve.
The bottom line seemed to be - was there a meaning or intention behind how life changed?' Selected works Darwin: A Companion.
The hole itself is not a physical thing, but rather a source of constraint that helps to restrict the conformational possibilities of the wheel's components, such that, on a global scale, the property of rolling emerges.
Meaning and Purpose, written by Kenneth Walker, was first published in September 1944 by Jonathan Cape, London, and republished by Pelican Books in 1950.
Illustrated by Karen Lewis, the book explains Charles Darwin's theory of common descent with a target audience of 3–5-year-olds.
The collection of essays, written between 1973–1977, became a best-seller and propelled Gould to national prominence.
When selective constraint is reached at a locus negative selection becomes so small that it is effectively neutral.
Background Edward Payson Evans (1831–1917) was an American scholar with interests in literature, languages, and moral philosophy.
Allen Orr wrote in The New York Review of Books that "Wade's survey of human population genomics is lively and generally serviceable.
The mites believe Darwin to be a god, one of their creation myths handed down from generation to generation, and he has to set them straight about that and other mite fables.
Wilkes also praised the "striking" illustrations by Philip Hood, particularly that of the "vacuumorph", though noted that some of his artwork was somewhat anatomically questionable and that some aspects of the book's science and technology "raised questions too involved to introduce here".
Wrangham argues that humans have domesticated themselves by a process of self-selection similar to the selective breeding of foxes described by Dmitry Belyayev, a theory first proposed by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in the early 1800s.
Darwinian Fairytales is a 1995 book by the philosopher David Stove, in which the author criticizes application of the theory of evolution as an explanation for sociobiological behavior such as altruism.
The major transitions generally involve the formation of new levels of units of selection, consisting of ensembles of pre-existing entities.
The Phenomenon of Man (French: Le phénomène humain) is an essay by the French geologist, paleontologist, philosopher, and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.
This chapter and its addendum contained most of the controversial material, and is still important today.
The cumulative process is directed by non-random survival." Dawkins illustrates the difference between the potential for the development of complexity as a result of pure randomness, as opposed to that of randomness coupled with cumulative selection.
Paulin stated that "Darwin's conception of the cruelty of nature to her sentient offspring is wholly mistaken." He argued that the struggle for existence emphasized by Darwin was immoral.
The Future is Wild, a 2002 miniseries, features future animals evolving over the course of several million years.
Another example is that the 2025 The New Dinosaurs has tyrannosaurs go completely extinct in the mid-Cenozoic, and presents the scavenging "gourmand" in South America as an abelisaur rather than a tyrannosaur.
Will leave you awestruck." The Times wrote "Levitin is such an enthusiastic anthropologist, such an exuberant song and dance man, such a natural-born associative thinker, that you gotta love the guy." It was named one of the best books of 2008 by the Boston Herald and by Seed Magazine.
The second is a convection system, where the low density fluid on the bottom mixes with the high density fluid on the top until the density becomes evenly distributed.
"One anticipates that Benton's Vertebrate Palaeontology will become the 'industry standard', and as such it should occupy space on the shelves of all involved in undergraduate teaching".
Rubin, Carl-Johan; Zody, MC; Eriksson, J; Meadows, JR; Sherwood, E; Webster, MT; Jiang, L; Ingman, M; et al.
Shapiro, among others, to have been poorly edited and contain errors such as misspellings of relevant names.
See also On the Origin of Species References External links Official website (in French) Darwin and the science of evolution at the Internet Archive Charles Darwin : the scholar who changed human history at the Internet Archive Darwin et la science de l'évolution at IMDb
In 2008, a group of scientists led by Anthony Herrel found that the lizards had evolved stronger jaws to adapt to a vegetarian diet, and have started to evolve a cecum.
Some of the issues discussed in the book are sexuality, telepathic communication between people, physical prowess or frailty, division of humans by caste or ability, and the preservation of ancient wisdom, among other things.
It should be pronounced to rhyme with ‘cream’.” Reception The Selfish Gene was extremely popular when published and it remains widely read.
Fisher's work also contributed to the development of many genetical studies, as his influence was great among scientists, making him a key figure in modern evolutionary biology.
Figure 8 of Osborn's paper, redrawn from the fossil, shows what was later proven to be an oviraptorid wishbone between the animal's arms, interpreted by Osborn as the interclavicle ("Ic." in Figure 8).
It posits that the Harappans were a mixture of Zagros agriculturists (from the modern-day Iran area) and First Indians, a wave of migrants who came from Africa into Arabia and then reached India around 65,000 years ago.
Summary The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto.
Miller says that "Zimmer’s book is to be recommended for the broad scope that it gives to the influence of evolutionary ideas in modern biology.
He describes frozen plasticity as being more general, and maintains that it better explains the origin of adaptive traits in genetically heterogeneous populations of sexual reproducing organisms.
Chapters It contains the following chapters: Introduction Variation within a Species The Genetical Analysis of Interspecific Differences Natural Selection What is Fitness?
A co-production between La Sept-Arte and Trans Europe Film, with the collaboration of Éditions Gallimard and CNRS Images Média, the film was directed by Valérie Winckler, with voice-over narration by the French actor Claude Aufaure and the director.
Elaborating on the nature of selection, he writes that it only works on the basis of whether alleles are better or worse than others in the population, in terms of their immediate fitness effects.
Reception Criticism of the book has come from the biologist Michael Ghiselin: "Much of what he says is completely wrong.
First published in 1992 as The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism, a revised and expanded edition was published under the current title in 2006.
Who Asked the First Question?: The Origins of Human Choral Singing, Intelligence, Language and Speech.
Sources Some sources for the book include The Song of the Dodo by David Quammen, The Ghost With Trembling Wings by Scott Weidensaul, and reports from Edward O.
He also suggests that the necessity for genetic compatibility between mitochondrial and nuclear DNA lies behind the differentiation of sex, ensuring that only one sexual partner contributes mitochondrial DNA to offspring.
Bennett (1983) reviewed the book in the European Journal of Operational Research as did Mart Gross (1984) in The Quarterly Review of Biology.
We often hear that when the Origin of Species was published there was a great outcry and an historic clash of science and religion.
Depending on how much CO2 is emitted, the Earth could very well be heading towards Eocene-temperature levels far faster than any underlying long term paleontology-cycle would suggest.
Here the Hawk-Dove model is introduced its assumptions reviewed and then an extended model, playing the field, is outlined.
Hand waving about the creative power of the organism makes a nice-sounding philosophical position but a poor scientific theory".
Boltzmann entropy Shannon's information based conception of entropy should be distinguished from the more classic thermodynamic conception of entropy developed by Ludwig Boltzmann and others at the end of the nineteenth century.
According to Ford, Fisher's work was occasionally misinterpreted by his peers, but his depth and range of thought won him lasting respect.
Johnson has since added an epilogue to the book titled "The Book and Its Critics", in the latest edition of Darwin On Trial.
An article by Fern Elsdon-Baker in New Scientist of 19 July 2009 entitled the "Dawkins Dogma" contains parts of the arguments put forward within the book.
Critical reception Tom Allen, in The Journal of the Civil War Era, wrote that Lincoln and Darwin "is not always completely convincing" with regard to the "shared vision" Lander identifies, but concluded that the book "is well worth reading.
The Folly of Fools: The Logic of Deceit and Self-Deception in Human Life (2011, Basic Books, ISBN 0465027555) by Robert Trivers is a book that examines the evolutionary explanations for deceit and self-deception.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
The book received generally positive reviews upon release and garnered the nickname "The Dinosaur Bible".
Buss attributes this to instinctual adaptations which he argues are universal across cultures and rooted in ancestral selection pressures.
In 1971, a population of Podarcis sicula from the island of Pod Kopiste was transported to the island of Pod Mrcaru.
The novel appears in the computer game Deus Ex as a reference when a corporation in the game allegedly tries to develop the Second Men in the series, but also in a much broader aspect as the game deals with genetic engineering, the next phase of evolution and human augmentations.
The authors focus on physical factors (structuralism) other than changes in an organism's genome that may have caused multicellular life to form new structures.
"dinosauroids") in The New Dinosaurs due to intelligence not having "[proven] itself as a feature that has any evolutionary advantage at all".
Imagining what they were like is hard—with our limited lifespan, deep time eludes us by its very nature.
The Journal of Mental Science found his mixture of science and theology untenable but praised Clair for his sincerity in accepting the evidence for evolution.
The Growth of Biological Thought: Diversity, Evolution, and Inheritance is a book written by Ernst Mayr, first published in 1982 by Belknap Press and is as much a book of philosophy and history as it is of biology.
It requires only that individuals of a species vary genetically in their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment.
The project began with work on a few, mostly slim volumes in which a single senior specialist in a distinct field of invertebrate paleozoology would summarize one particular group.
OneZoom, an interactive fractal explorer of the tree of life, used to make the visualizations in The Ancestor's Tale.
One of the principal themes of the book is the continual evolution of humans, especially since their migration out of Africa around 50,000 years ago.
Donald Symons also finds it inappropriate to use anthropomorphism in conveying scientific meaning in general, and particularly in this instance.
Darwin emphasises the social value of expression, especially the emotional communication between mother and child.
They present evidence that most dominant human civilizations have always been likewise behaviorally patriarchal, and that male humans share male chimpanzees' innate propensity for dominance, gratuitous violence, war, rape, and murder.
He concentrated on mathematics while attending Cambridge, but eventually discovered that biology and statistics sparked his interest.
The book's title refers to the argument made by the authors that evolution by natural selection, rather than only acting on DNA sequence variation, acts on four different systems or "dimensions": genetic, epigenetic, behavioral, and symbolic.
Contents The books argues that different species of living things are exactly the same today as they were hundreds of millions of years ago, that having been created by God, life forms on Earth have never undergone even the slightest change/evolution.
The Atlas of Creation (or, in Turkish, Yaratılış Atlası) is a series of creationist books written by Adnan Oktar under the pen name Harun Yahya.
A biographical sketch of Darwin follows, covering his youth, his naturalistic studies on the voyage of the Beagle and subsequent life, focusing on his scientific researches and writings.
Similarly, Amerindians, Aboriginals, and Polynesians, for example, had experienced very little infectious disease.
Edited and with appendix and notes by his granddaughter Nora Barlow, London: Collins, retrieved November 5, 2019 Darwin, Charles (2006), "Journal", in van Wyhe, John (ed.), [Darwin's personal 'Journal' (1809-1881)], Darwin Online, CUL-DAR158.1-76, retrieved 2008-12-20 External links Barlow, Nora ed.
This they argue demonstrates the substantial influence that he has had on the field (Traulsen and Glynatsi, 2023, page 2.
Part biography, part history of science and social documentary, this book takes readers on Darwin's journey of discovery.
Darwin wrote the text, which he entitled Recollections of the Development of my Mind and Character, for his family.
The work was quickly translated into several languages: German (1909), Estonian, English (1912), Ukrainian (1920), and Chinese (1922).
It is considered to have bound together a wide array of ideas in a way that advanced the understanding of professionals in several fields.
Freeman: Bibliography with links to text and images of all editions of The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication, including translations into French, German, Italian, and Polish.
Evans critiques the traditional anthropocentric worldview that places humans inherently above all other forms of life, arguing that this perspective is both scientifically outdated and morally inadequate.
Wagner and Chi-hua Chiu Epigenesis and Evolution of Brains: From Embryonic Divisions to Functional Systems, Georg F.
Dennett acknowledges this and admits he is offering a philosophical idea rather than a scientific formulation.
During the course of his research Ottaviani found the then-unpublished autobiography of Charles Knight.
Overview The book includes additional reading aids: An illustration of the evolutionary tree of life.
The book, which is written in the style of Alfred Sherwood Romer's Vertebrate Paleontology, presented more recent overall coverage of the subject.
Whitcomb, Jr.'s publication of The Genesis Flood (1961) and the forming of the Creation Research Society, which created the creation science movement.
Chapters eight and nine cover agency, while chapters ten and eleven cover efficacy, and twelve covers scope.
Whitcomb had earlier studied geology and paleontology at Princeton University, but by the 1950s, he was teaching the Bible at Grace Theological Seminary.
After the Postscript are 11 Appendices dealing with some more technical background and illustrative material.
ergaster, Homo erectus and Homo heidelbergensis, migrated out of Africa and to Asia (around 1 to 1.66 million years ago) and Europe (around 500,000 years ago), respectively.
The entry of each dinosaur species includes information on its size, age, distribution and anatomical characteristics.
It contains a selection of 87 letters from the correspondence of Charles Darwin, an autobiographical chapter written by Charles Darwin for his family, and an essay by Thomas Huxley "On the reception of the 'Origin of Species'".
While the dinosaur-bird connection (or lack thereof) was being pursued in paleontology, the problem of the evolution of flight was under scrutiny as well.
Gould describes the recapitulationists in the 19th century, from the German Lorenz Oken and Johann Friedrich Meckel to the French Étienne Serres.
In fact, few of us go back to the original, instead taking for granted what other people say he said.
Research For the Darwin bicentenary year of 2009, van Wyhe published four books on Darwin: Darwin's Shorter Publications; Darwin's Notebooks from the Voyage of the Beagle; Darwin in Cambridge; and an accessible biography: Darwin.
There is an internet version of the test called the Moral Sense Test which is aimed at a worldwide public.
Starting from the premise that society can, on a simplistic level, be represented as a variant of the prisoner's dilemma, Ridley examines how it has been possible for a society to arise in which people choose to cooperate with others, rather than "defect" and act purely in their own self-interest.
The Globe and Mail said of the book, "Here's an elegantly illustrated directory of ancient animals, from a tiny marine creature of Canada called a pkaia through a dim-witted, 21-metre dinosaur named after the Alamo, to mankind's departed brethren, the Cro-Magnon." == References ==
He accepted a Senior Research Fellowship at the National University of Singapore in 2002 where he both founded the Darwin Online project and edited the Science section of the Victorian Web.
Citing recent DNA evidence, the book traces the subsequent large migrations of anatomically modern humans into India—of agriculturalists from Iran between 7000 and 3000 BCE and Indo-European-speaking pastoralists from the Central Asian Steppe (Aryans) between 2000 and 1000 BCE, among others.
It does not goes much in-depth about the evolution of melanism in other species as the title might suggest.
Haldane and Sewall Wright expanded on Fisher's framework to describe gene frequencies, genetic drift and mutation.
It is considered one of three scholarly biographies of Darwin, along with Charles Darwin: The Man and His Influence (1996) by Peter J.
The Theory of Evolution is a book by English evolutionary biologist and geneticist John Maynard Smith, originally published in 1958 in time for 150th anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin and the centenary of the publication of The Origin of Species the following year.
He presents here several figures and illustrations of the cleavage of the blastoderm in reptiles and birds.
In 2006, an independent film was made, based loosely on the book, written and directed by Daniel Mellitz, starring Josh Wise, Chelse Swain, Sean Shanks, Amanda MacDonald, Tony LaThanh, Corbin Bernsen.
She also describes specific species extinguished by humans, as well as the ecologies surrounding prehistoric and near-present extinction events.
Ridley examines the history of different attempts to explain the fact that humans in society do not defect, looking at various computer generated models that have been used to explain how such behaviour could arise.
This edition was published in London by Collins under the title of The Autobiography of Charles Darwin 1809-1882.
Description Through a series of short fictional stories and discussion following them, Baker proposes evolutionary functions for sexual habits, mostly on the principle of competition between sperm of different men for a prized egg.
Thus, "The Galápagos Finch's Tale" is about natural selection, "The Peacock's Tale" is about sexual selection, "The Salamander's Tale" is about speciation, and "The Barnacle's Tale" is about how appearances can be deceiving.
Scott further states that Johnson lacks familiarity with the specifics and nuances of the field necessary to match the critiques of Darwinism offered by evolutionary biologists, and instead parrots the criticisms made by suspect sources (scientific creationists).
There is also criticism about the emphasis on cladistic relationships described, while sections are organized following Linnaean taxonomy that can conflict or misrepresent cladistic groups.
Resonance example: A good example of morphodynamic work is the induced resonance that can be observed by singing or playing a flute next to a string instrument like a harp or guitar.
Proactive aggression, by contrast, is so highly developed in humans that we must put elaborate security measures in place to prevent others from carrying out plans to bring the plane down.
Johnson said in an interview in California Monthly that he fully expected to be labeled a "kook" by the academy, but he was "pleasantly surprised" by its reception at Berkeley.
Eugenie Scott has pointed out that the book repeats many arguments by creationists that were previously discredited.
The book provides an overview of the historical and philosophical debates that have continued throughout the history of evolutionary theory, and carry on to this day in debates surrounding the merits of gene-centric selection and group selection models.
A companion book, Walking with Cavemen: Stand Eye-to-Eye with your Ancestors, was also released in 2003 and received positive reviews.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
For example, a typewritten page can bear as many different messages as there are different combinations of characters that can be arranged on the page.
Alan Kazlev wrote, "This is a very good non-technical introduction to prehistoric vertebrates" and "it is the sheer number and diversity of creatures covered here, that makes this book so interesting".
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Awards New York Times 10 Best Books of the Year: Winner, 2017 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction: Finalist, 2018 == References ==
See also The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves References External links Matt Ridley on Sex and Evolution at PBS
Pannekoek, who was also a prominent astronomer, sought to apply the Marxist approach to the analysis of the natural sciences.
Contents After opening with the declaration that "the Bible is the infallible Word of God", Whitcomb's section provides biblical arguments for a universal flood as well as attempting to refute non-geological difficulties with the biblical account.
Reception Contemporaneous Reviewing the book for American Scientist in 1943, the geologist Kirtley Mather wrote that the book provided "an admirable digest" of decades of work by many scientists.
The Eve in the title refers to Mitochondrial Eve, a name used for the most recent common ancestor of all humans in the matrilineal (mother to daughter) line of descent.
References External links Science, Evolution, and Creationism full text online from the National Academies Press
It topped The Sunday Times' Bestseller list, with more than twice the sales of its nearest competitor.
Laden concludes that "A Troublesome Inheritance is itself troubling, not for its politics but for its science.
Description of the book The book explores the multiple factors that may have been responsible for the origination of biological form in multicellular life.
The book contains a very useful summary of Majerus' work on melanism in ladybirds and a review of the peppered moth story, including observations on moth behavior which sparked controversy.
But the extraordinary complexity and difficulty of exact measurement may mean that that is never the case.
But, as with all successful encyclopedic renderings, its value resides in its detailed, beautifully illustrated, and lucidly organized descriptions.
The People's Press endorsed the book and published statements of support from Henry Demarest Lloyd, Robert G.
John Horgan in the New York Times was mostly positive in his evaluation of the ideas and evidence that Trivers put forward but said of Trivers' writing style: Trivers is not an elegant stylist like Dawkins, Wilson or Pinker.
Reception David Dobbs indicates that Prum's view is controversial but that he makes his case with clarity, grace, and charm, namely that aesthetic courtship gives females sexual choice, autonomy and safety.
References External links Google Books - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs Macmillan Publishers - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs
However, the pseudo-scientific method he uses in his work The Atlas of Creation cannot in any way be considered scientific.
Darwin and the Beagle gives a brief history of Darwin and his predecessors, like the geologists James Hutton and Charles Lyell.
Vincent's University Hospital reviewed the book favorably as well, describing it as "engagingly well-written" and praising the cartoon illustrations.
The Simon & Schuster Encyclopedia of Dinosaurs and Prehistoric Creatures: A Visual Who's Who of Prehistoric Life is an encyclopedia that was published in 1999 by Simon & Schuster.
It was highly important in asserting his dominance of comparative anatomy, and in the long run more influential in establishing evolution amongst biologists than was the debate with Samuel Wilberforce.
Despite all this, the oceanic wildlife remains untethered by most of these impacts, specifically the commercial farmed fish.
The book is a detailed study of the history of Indian paleoanthropology and of the fossil record of prehistoric people of the Indian Subcontinent.
Essentially, Singer claims that although humans possess selfish, competitive tendencies naturally, they have a substantial capacity for cooperation that has also been selected for during human evolution.
The Universal Kinship was one of several works by Moore, including Why I Am a Vegetarian (1895), Better-World Philosophy (1899) and The New Ethics (1907).
The human eye is built upside down and backwards, so that light has to travel through blood vessels and various cells before reaching the light receptors.
Supposing, for instance, that in a population of frogs, males fight to the death over breeding ponds.
Overview The first and second editions (1955 and 1969) provide an overview of the entire range of vertebrate evolution, and are illustrated by the distinctive drawings of Lois Darling.
In the first example, Gould explains that the decline of the top batting average does not imply that there has been a decline in the skill of baseball players.
She began it with a fable of a "small community of modest scholars called natural historians" who all practised their own sciences, until one day a man who "had been called Entomologist, Ecologist, and even Biochemist" arose among them and pronounced "there shall be a new science".
Contents The book opens with an introduction by the authors reflecting on the making of the TV series.
that circumnutation (the process that creates the circular or elliptical movement of the stem and tips of plants) was central in the development of multitudes of adaptations to the environment and thus resulting in an immense variety of plants.
Conditioning by reinforcement, occurs when an event following a response causes an increase in the probability of that response occurring in the future.
Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers: How Agriculture Really Began is a book on prehistoric agriculture and anthropology by the British science writer Colin Tudge.
By biologists The theoretical biologist Mary Jane West-Eberhard reviewed the book in detail for The Quarterly Review of Biology as a work "of special significance".
Biology for Christian Schools is a 1991 school-level biology textbook written from a Young Earth Creation point of view by William S.
It then narrates the careers of two early, self-taught, 'scientific' creationists; the old Earth creationist Harry Rimmer, and the young Earth flood geologist George McCready Price.
The book was released as several states, particularly Texas and Florida, considered revisions in state science standards.
The book became one of the canonical publications on the modern synthesis and is considered to be exemplary of the original expansion of evolutionary theory.
Wade speculates where evolution will lead humans in the future, suggesting further skeletal gracilisation, increases in intelligence, adaptations to the changing climate, and even the possibility of speciation.
Several prominent dinosaur groups were also not known in 1988 (for instance scansoriopterygids and alvarezsaurs) or known only partially (such as rebbachisaurs and therizinosaurs).
Morris further stated that the more rounded shape of human female breasts means they are mainly a sexual signalling device rather than simply for providing milk for infants.
It became an international best-seller and was nominated for the Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction in 2003.
The book then narrates the young Earth creationist backlash against the ASA's modernism, with Henry M.
"Otherlands" & Thomas Halliday on climate change Halliday indicates that humankind bears a huge responsibility in the trajectory of our contemporary climate change.
Gould's first book of collected essays, it originated from his monthly column "This View of Life," published in Natural History magazine.
Paleontological accuracy Initial response Upon the release of The New Dinosaurs, many of the animals featured were criticized by paleontologists and science writers, particularly in that so many of the animals are entirely convergent with actual modern-day animals.
An Introduction to African Cave Taphonomy is a 1981 book by Charles Kimberlin Brain regarding the taphonomy of cave deposits in Africa.
Reception The Houston Chronicle stated, "this reference work for the serious student combines succinct scientific descriptions with superbly rendered color illustrations".
Protista / Protoctista, Volume 3: Protozoa (Chiefly Radiolaria & Tintinnina), xii + 195 p., 92 fig., 1954.
Wilson's Sociobiology had with "woeful ignorance" strayed into anthropology, and Wilson's "bright young colleague" Gould had now done the same thing, possibly making trouble for years to come.
franchise of documentaries, the production team of Walking with Cavemen recruited a large team of 111 scientists from various fields to advise on the series.
The book culminates in a call for a revision of existing legal and moral frameworks to better reflect the ethical responsibilities humans have towards animals, grounded in an understanding of their psychological complexity and the evolutionary connections between all forms of life.
In the book, Lorenz uses the mirror as a simple model of the human brain that reflects the part of the stream of information from the outside world it is able to "see".
Bowler and Janet Browne's two-volume biography, Charles Darwin: Voyaging (1995) and Charles Darwin: The Power of Place (2002).
Desmond Morris, the author, who had been the curator of mammals at London Zoo, said his book was intended to popularise and demystify science.
Tempo and Mode earned Simpson the Daniel Giraud Elliot Medal from the National Academy of Sciences in 1944.
Lander explores similarities in the intellectual development, concerns, and impacts of Abraham Lincoln and Charles Darwin, focusing in particular on the issue of slavery in the United States, which both men influentially opposed.
These mutations can be beneficial or deleterious and are selected for or against based on that factor.
Explanatory filter: Mathematician William Dembski devised an "explanatory filter" which essentially says that if something is not clearly produced by nature or by chance then it must be the result of intelligent design.
Wilson argues that evolution has left its traces on characteristics such as generosity, self-sacrifice, worship and the use of sex for pleasure, and proposes a sociobiological explanation of homosexuality.
Another letter, from Philip Kitcher, Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University, asserted that evolution and other scientific findings "are so well supported that they count as facts".
His Darwinian theory of self-deception is arguably his most provocative and interesting idea so far.
Because contragrade changes are driven by external interactions with another changing system, contragrade causes can be seen as analogous to Aristotle's efficient cause.
She argued that the female lion’s reproductive system represented a higher degree of biological complexity than the male's mane or muscle mass.
Reception Neil Tappen, writing in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology, wrote that the book "brings together the findings of a versatile investigator who has been working many years to interpret the hominid-bearing cave deposits in South Africa.
Everhart also covers the discovery of the fossils and geographic records as well as the competition between E.
References External links Supplementary Information to Dinosaurs: The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages by Thomas R.
After all, the first antibiotic, penicillin, was developed, heroically, by Florey and Chain as recently as the Second World War.
In addition to maintaining Darwin Online, van Wyhe had an interest in the history of phrenology and has given talks on this in Britain, France, and Germany.
In a second review, Scott again points out that the book is anti-evolution, that Johnson's arguments are recycled from scientific creationism.
At the rear of the book is a 53-page Classification list which lists every genus known at the time of publication, along with locality and stratigraphic range.
For a long time, apart from the discussion in his biography of his father, the only widely read though oblique references to the book were to be found in Father and Son, the psychological portrait of Philip Gosse by his son Edmund Gosse published in 1907.
Dr Tatiana receives letters from various creatures about their sex lives, and responds by explaining the biology of sex to creatures concerned.
The concept of extended phenotype has been generalized in an organism-centered view of evolution with the concept of niche construction, in the case where natural selection pressures can be modified by the organisms during the evolutionary process.
A few points will suffice to show how similar Deloria is to outspoken creationist author Duane Gish or any of his ilk." Michael D.
Specifically the church of England spoke out against the book, while liberal Anglicans supported his theory as an instrument used by God.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
[the facts] are intelligible if we admit their descent from a common ancestor, together with their subsequent adaptation to diversified conditions...
"The Chimpanzee's Tale" is about comparative genomics, specifically the comparison of human and chimpanzee genomes.
Whether meaning to or not, we are deciding which evolutionary pathways will be shut off forever, and which can be left open to flourish.
Summary Full House aims to explain to the general reader how misconceptions about statistics can lead people to misunderstand the role variation plays in driving trends in complex systems.
Human intelligence, he suggests, is used primarily to attract mates through prodigious displays of wit, charm, inventiveness, and individuality.
Mathematics and Experimental Science The book extolls the natural sciences and the role played by experience in developing the natural sciences.
Creationists mentioned in the book include George Frederick Wright, Louis Agassiz, John William Dawson, George D.
The term is abstract and the concept is impossible to prove with a controlled scientific experiment; as Lima-de-Faria states it 'Selection cannot be weighed or poured into a vial.
For example, Bergson's term "duration" refers to a more individual, subjective experience of time, as opposed to mathematical, objectively measurable "clock time." In Creative Evolution, Bergson suggests that the experience of time as "duration" can best be understood through intuition.
Kenyon believed that proteins were directly formed by attraction between amino acids without DNA coding, and that these were derivatives from non-living raw chemicals in a conducive environment.
Wilson describes On Human Nature as a sequel to his earlier books The Insect Societies (1971) and Sociobiology: The New Synthesis (1975).
Davey described Better-World Philosophy as Moore's first major work, observing that contemporary reviews, though mixed, often remarked on his bold style and intensity of opinion.
The rise of archosaurs as one of the predominant groups is highlighted, along with their competitors, the therapsids.
Moore was also connected to the broader humanitarian movement of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, which aimed to improve the treatment of both animals and humans.
But, fascinatingly, they got better in different ways – that is, different tribes developed different sets of mutations.” Lenski's student Zachary Blount found that one strain evolved the ability to digest citrate.
[Foreword by Richard Darwin Keynes] (Cambridge University Press, forthcoming July 2009, with Gordon Chancellor and Kees Rookmaaker).
In the second part of his book, Wade proposes that regional differences in evolution of social behavior explain many differences among different human societies around the world.
Mammoths, Sabertooths, and Hominids: 65 Million Years of Mammalian Evolution in Europe is a book written by Jordi Agustí and illustrated by Mauricio Antón.
The 2002 series was an international co-production, involving the Franco-German channel Arte, the German ZDF, the Austrian ORF, the Italian MFE - MediaForEurope (via their Mediaset division), and the American Animal Planet and Discovery Channel.
For instance, the apex predator of the South American pampas, the coelurosaurian "cutlasstooth", has evolved huge, cutting teeth to allow it to prey upon large sauropods.
Overview The book's particular focus is on a criticism of current models of migration to the New World, in particular the Bering land bridge theory.
The foreword to the English version was written by one of the key advocates for natural selection and evolution of the 20th century, and a co-developer of the modern synthesis in biology, Julian Huxley.
Charles's wife Emma Darwin's correspondence was published by Charles and Emma's daughter (Frank's sister) Henrietta Litchfield in 1905/1915 as Emma Darwin: A Century of Family Letters.
Wilfred Elders said that "The book is remarkable because it has 23 co-authors who comprise a veritable 'Who's Who' in creationism.
The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature is a popular science book by Matt Ridley exploring the evolutionary psychology of sexual selection.
Further ideas presented in the book that had little to no evidence in the 1980s but has since been found in the fossil record include semi-aquatic dinosaurs, arctic dinosaurs, and dinosaurs subjected to insular dwarfism.
The geologic record shows that ancient lifeforms such as marine reptiles, pteranodons, and toothed birds inhabited the general area both in and out of the water.
Hughes wrote that the basic idea behind the book "seems to be that there are certain laws of form built into the universe which somehow determine the development of organisms as well as a number of abiotic processes", but the definition of autoevolution was never made clear.
In an attempt to find a solution to the philosophical problems associated with teleological explanations, Deacon returns to Aristotle's four causes and attempts to modernize them with thermodynamic concepts.
It considers how across species, females are more careful in selecting their mates than males (they invest far more energy into each offspring).
In this work, Teilhard describes evolution as a process that leads to increasing complexity, culminating in the unification of consciousness.
According to Tucker, many academics who received the book unsolicited were outraged at its content, calling it "racial pornography" and a "vile piece of work"; at least one insisting on returning it to the publisher.
It is about men." Years later Knight and his wife are taking their granddaughter Rhoda to the American Museum of Natural History.
Engels uses this framework to suggest that humanity must transcend the ecologically destructive patterns of capitalism, and progress to a mode of production that operates in harmony with nature.
Chapters Cosmic Mirror: The questions of who and what humans are explored in terms of the history of the universe, life and humankind as when looking in a mirror.
The case was brought to the European Court by several members of the Estamirov family together with the British solicitor Gareth Peirce and the organization Russian Justice Initiative.
The pilot headed away from the attack but took care that he was not over the sea before ordering the crew to bale out.
Situated in a plaza, this modest memorial pays tribute to the victims who were held at this facility.
Between 31 May and 8 June 1978, the Argentine government kidnapped a score of RL militants, the most important being Rafael Tello, Pablo Tello, Elsa Martínez, Hernán Ramírez Achinelli, "Melena" Edison Oscar Cantero Freire and "el Pata" Fernando Díaz Cárdenas.
On November 20, 2005, roughly 20,000 protesters attended the vigil, "remembering those who have been silenced by SOA violence".
Further, he believed the training served to "increase respect for United States foreign policy goals and the United States concept of military-civilian relationships at the national level".
On 7 May he was killed along with Olim Zarobekov at the government-run Radio House in Dushanbe, according to the Union of Journalists of Tajikistan.
It was recently applied by the Chilean Supreme Court in December 2007." While Pinochet was detained under house arrest on October 30, 2006, over "charges including murder, torture, and kidnapping in the years following his 1973 coup, he was never formally convicted.
Origins Warsaw was considered by the Germans to be the centre of Polish resistance against the Nazi "New Order".
Russia was a European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of the February 5, 2000, Novye Aldi massacre in Chechnya, which unanimously held Russia responsible for violations of Articles 2 (right to life) and 13 (right to effective remedy) of the European Convention of Human Rights.
A special commando team from Argentina worked in conjunction with Somoza's OSN (Office of National Security) and its Argentine advisors with the objective of capturing exiled squadrons from the ERP and the Montoneros.
Although he was already older, he joined the group and performed in the institute's orchestra, where he played the violin and prepared talks for various ceremonies.
Early life Al-Gashey was a former student of nursing in University of Tripoli, Libya and had won a scholarship to study chemistry at the American University of Beirut.
Prisoner of war Flying operationally with No.72 Squadron, Birkland was pilot of Spitfire Mark Vb serial W3367 on the afternoon of 7 November 1941 on a Rodeo mission over the coast of occupied Europe.
He was last seen on 14 April 1944 in the Danzig area and was probably seized by the Gestapo, disappearing in captivity.
It appeared that the suspects were on a reconnaissance-mission and had parked their car to save a space for the actual car containing the explosives.
According to the police, Fahim was killed while in custody after a group of militants opened fire on them.
Later in 1811, Rodríguez was elected parliamentary representative for Talca on 4 September, appointed Secretary of War on 15 November and conscripted into the army on 2 December with the rank of captain.
In the 20 July plot, once the Nazis had been routed, Koch was slated to become the presiding judge of the Reichsgericht, the highest court in the German Reich.
While the term "jungle justice" is used across West and Central Africa to describe mob-led extrajudicial punishment, it is commonly studied and documented in Nigeria and Cameroon.
He is notable for the part he took in the 'Great Escape' from Stalag Luft III in March 1944 and as one of the men recaptured and subsequently shot by the Gestapo.
At Stalag Luft I Bull met Roger Bushell during various tunnelling escape attempts, Bushell later masterminded the Great Escape.
The Murder of Fred Hampton at IMDb (A 1971 documentary film directed by Howard Alk) FBI files on Fred Hampton From COINTELPRO to the Shadow Government: As Fred Hampton Jr.
In January 2016, actor Steven Schub played the part of Avraham 'Yair' Stern in the world premiere of historian Zev Golan's play The Ghosts of Mizrachi Bet Street, based on the life of Avraham Stern directed by Leah Stoller and S.
Military jurisdiction Prisoners of war Major treaties such as the Geneva Conventions and Hague Conventions, and customary international law protect the rights of captured regular or irregular enemy soldiers and civilians.
The two surviving soldiers were summarily executed by FMLN forces in one of the most infamous incidents during El Salvador's civil war.
Willy Williams and Rusty Kierath headed off and later joined up with Johnny Bull and Jerzy Mondschein to trek through the Reisengebirge mountains where they were arrested by a mountain patrol trying to cross into occupied Czechoslovakia and taken to Reichenberg prison.
On 19 November 1941 he became a pilot for the 1st Photographic Reconnaissance Unit (PRU) flying out of RAF Benson South Oxfordshire, England.
During the National Reorganization Process, prisoners were shot during "transfers", to later claim that the transport had been attacked and that they had died in the ensuing confrontation.
Impact The killings of seven journalists within the span of a year has spurred some media outlets to stop reporting on government actions and has caused others to go so far as to stop reporting entirely.
In the past, summary execution of pirates, spies, and francs-tireurs have been performed and considered legal under existing international law.
He was amongst the early groups of arrivals in late spring 1942 and he immediately began preparing to escape.
Stationed in French Indochina in 1945, he was beheaded by the Japanese during their March coup d'état.
38 Squadron RAF In August 1941 Cross succeeded in his aim to return to operational flying and was posted to No.
Over the target area they received two serious hits by anti-aircraft fire and began to limp homewards but had to ditch in the English Channel.
See also Anarchism in Argentina María Esther Biscayart de Tello, mother of Rafael and Pablo Tello References Bibliography Diz, Verónica; Trujillo, Fernando López (2007).
Erwin von Lahousen and Hans Bernd Gisevius, two of Canaris's main subordinates, survived the war and testified during the Nuremberg trials about Canaris's courage in opposing Hitler.
Power was killed almost a year later in September when the party he was with, led by Colonel Stewart, were attempting to break through a blockade.
Lemonnier was subsequently taken prisoner himself and ordered by a Japanese general to sign a document formally surrendering the forces under his command.
Because giving this assistance would expose the husband to liability, the Director of Public Prosecutions was asked to agree not to prosecute her husband.
His brother Captain Greg Kierath was serving with an Australian Anti-Tank company and was killed at Tobruk on 14 April 1941 on about the date when Kierath gained his pilot's aircrew brevet.
However, the convictions which were given to six former DINA members and two former prominent army officers in August 2023 would be described as the "final conviction" the Supreme Court of Chile would hand down for the Soria assassination.
At some point Staverman and Pattiwal separated from the others to undertake further exploration of the countryside, and were ambushed by a group of natives.
This led radicalized youth that would then form the Montoneros to embrace more radical beliefs of Camilo Torres and García Elorrio instead, with Torres arguing that "The duty of every Catholic is to be a revolutionary" and that "The Catholic who is not a revolutionary is living in mortal sin".
Five German POWs, whose uniforms were found to still have blood on them, were court-martialed for Kunze's murder.
Many Christians took shelter in the local French school; Osman's brigands abducted and raped the women and girls, killed the men and boys, and later burned the school.
Literally only needing to cross the river to Basel in neutral Switzerland he was hand-cuffed and taken to a local police station.
The fate of Paul Maitla was uncertain for number of decades, until some information was discovered in 2005 in the city archives of the Czech town of Nymburk.
On 30 September 2014 the Court denied the request to apply an interim measure against but requested the State of Azerbaijan to provide explanations and reasons for the delay.
Early life Stern was born in Suwałki, present-day Poland (then the part of Poland that was under Russian Partition).
Memorial In 2016, several former inmates in associations such as the Colectivo de Mujeres Sobrevivientes Siempre Resistentes ("Collective of surviving women always resisting") and the Sobrevivientes de Venda Sexy ("Survivors of Venda Sexy") asked the former facility to be made a national monument.
Painful Easter The repression continued and in the next days the police would imprison hundreds of agrarian workers.
A group of Jews and Belarusians, members and sympathizers of the delegalized Communist Party, all citizens of Poland, took control of the town of Skidel and some nearby locations, acquired firearms, often from skirmishes with Polish Army units and police.
Resistencia Libertaria (initially known as the Resistencia Anticapitalista Libertaria) was an Argentine anarchist urban guerrilla group that emerged in 1974 via a network of workers and university militants from La Plata and Córdoba.
Azerbaijan on 4 November 2021, pronouncing the State of Azerbaijani guilty of the breach of articles 2 and 3 (violations of the right to life and the prohibition of torture, incomplete investigation and delayed return of the body.
Originally his remains were buried at Sagan, but he is now buried in part of the Poznań Old Garrison Cemetery beside his fellow escapers.
Early life Gerald MacIntosh Johnston was born on October 1, 1904, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada to James Macintosh Johnston and Clare Maud Mckay Johnston.
Even though he escaped the disastrous Battle of Edgcote, he was lynched by a mob at Bridgwater on 17 August 1469.
He began his primary studies in his hometown, and later continued them at the Colegio San José in Buenos Aires, run by Bayonne parents, where prominent figures from the Argentine political and business scene also studied, including former President Hipólito Yrigoyen.
Arriving at the general Cemetery along the Avenida de la Paz, the funeral became an impressive popular protest, the first since September 11 ...
Career Joining the United States Foreign Service in 1955, White served in a variety of positions at the State Department and in US delegations, primarily in Latin America.
On the morning of 29 March 1944 Jim Wernham and Nick Skantzikas were removed from the cell and then during the afternoon Doug Poynter and Pop Green.
forces prepared to depart from the staging area, a helicopter collided with a transport plane, causing a fire that killed eight servicemen.
Pinochet was at the centre of this illegal arms trade, receiving money through various offshore and front companies, including Banco Coutts International in Miami.
The brigade was also involved, with the assistance of false TTG paperwork, in the acquisition of large quantities of small arms and other martial equipment for use by the Haganah in Palestine.
Nearing the border suspicious policemen insisted on carefully examining their papers, checking their briefcases which contained newspapers and escape rations.
Richardson School of Law Library at the University of Hawaiʻi places the number of the victims of enforced disappearances under the rule of Ferdinand Marcos at 783.
Known as Guatón Romo ("Fatso Romo") or Comandante Raúl, he was one of DINA's key torturers, operating in centers such as Villa Grimaldi.
On 25 November 1975, General Augusto Pinochet's 60th birthday, leaders of the military intelligence services of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay met with Manuel Contreras, chief of DINA (the Chilean secret police), in Santiago de Chile, officially creating the Plan Condor.
On July 18 Requejo was with his wife and son in Madridejos, reportedly preparing to travel to Puebla de Sanabria to commence summer holidays.
War service On 19 April 1940 Long commenced his service with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve with service number 922353 and by 24 December 1940 had been promoted to Leading Aircraftman and awarded his pilot brevet (wings).
For example, Al-Jazeera's bureau chief in Islamabad, Ahmad Zaidan, was wrongly identified as the most probable member of al-Qaeda and the Muslim Brotherhood on their records.
49 Squadron RAF at Scampton flying Handley Page Hampdens but was severely wounded on 16 October 1940 by anti-aircraft fire over Bordeaux harbour flying Hampden L4129 on a mine laying mission.
He took control of the camp then toured the camp with a group of reporters (including war correspondent Marguerite Higgins).
The coalition HQ let the Jordanian Air Forces perform most of the air strike sorties planned for that day.
On 3 June 1996, the French criminal court found the doctor innocent as the foetus was not considered viable, and thus was not a "human person" under the French Criminal Code (then Article 319, now Articles 221—226).
He enlisted in the Polish Army before 1930 later transferring to the Polish Air Force and rising through the ranks to become a commissioned officer.
Oleksandr Kovalenko – editor-in-chief of the newspaper Social Politics (Kyiv), on 8 February was found shot dead in a forest near Zhytomyr.
As of 10 March, Oleksandr Ihorovych Matsievskyi (Ukrainian: Олександр Ігорович Мацієвський), a 42-year-old Ukrainian soldier deployed to Bakhmut in November 2022 and who also disappeared, remained a credible alternative due to contextual and visual similarities.
Casey was a member of the group of "bad lads" with Bushell who were sent to the reputedly escape proof Stalag Luft III in the province of Lower Silesia near the town of Sagan (now Żagań in Poland).
Honours Wisła Kraków Ekstraklasa: 1927, 1928 Polish Cup: 1925–26 References External links Władysław Kowalski at 90minut.pl (in Polish)
References External links Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Center for International Policy Appearances on C-SPAN
Later the Armenian authorities started investigating the possibility of his kidnapping from the Armenian territory by the Azerbaijani forces.
He was taken prisoner by the Yugoslav Partisans and shot on 5 June 1945 in Ljubljana, together with generals Gustav Fehn (XV Mountain Corps), Werner von Erdmannsdorff (LXXXXI Corps) and Heinz Kattner (Feldkommandant of Sarajevo).
From then on, the Marines returned every Saturday, forcing male villagers to take them to the women, after which the Marines would take them into the nearby hills and rape them.
Biography Mohsen Hojaji was an officer in the IRGC operating in Syria as part of an advisory team to the Syrian government forces during the Syrian Civil War.
At some point – definitely after 21 June 1450 – he married Isabel, daughter of Sir John Barre of Herefordshire.
Background On September 11, 2010 a 20-years-old resident of the Armenian village of Ttujur bordering with Azerbaijan, Manvel Saribekyan, was captured by the Azerbaijani military near the Azerbaijani village of Zamanli.
He was posthumously mentioned in despatches in June 1944, recognizing his conspicuous bravery as a prisoner because none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
During the Second Chechen War, he did not take an active part in hostilities and instead sought a negotiated end to the war on behalf of Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov.
Obama defended the use of drones as just because America "is at war with al Qaeda, the Taliban and their associated forces".
After his medical internship, Rascher worked with his now divorced father in Basel, Switzerland, and continued his medical studies there, joining the Swiss Voluntary Work Forces.
intelligence would provide the Argentine government with intelligence and logistics support for an arms interdiction program to stem the flow of military supplies to the FMLN from Cuba and Nicaragua.
In particular, the Telegram channel of the neo-Nazi Rusich Group posted a message saying: "You will be surprised how many of these videos will gradually pop up", accompanying the message with a smiley emoji.
On 23 October 1942, Koenen parachuted behind German lines at Osterode in East Prussia and made his way to Berlin to his contact, Ilse Stöbe.
After recovering, Wicker completed courses for SS leadership applicants at the SS-Junker Schools in Bad Tölz from August to November 1943.
On 19 August 1915, U-24 sank the White Star Liner SS Arabic with the loss of 44 lives – this included three Americans and resulted in a diplomatic incident between Germany and the United States.
A woman who identified herself as the soldier's sister said that her brother could "definitely stand up to the Russians like that" and that "he never hid the truth in his life, and he definitely wouldn't hide it in front of the enemy".
Herbig, Munich 2003, ISBN 3-7766-2317-9, p.242 ff Ulrich Sahm: Ilse Stöbe Die Rote Kapelle im Widerstand gegen den Nationalsozialismus.
Anunciação was set free and then dragged from his bed at night by a mob of forty people who beat him to death with bricks and clubs.
Killings by both official and unofficial security forces would climax in the late 1970s and early 1980s under the presidencies of Fernando Romeo Lucas García and Efraín Ríos Montt, with over 18,000 documented killings in 1982 alone.
But on May 30, 1944, Adams P-51B was attacked and shot down by 4 Bf-109s near Celle Air Base: he parachuted out of his aircraft and landed on the ground.
A nationwide, self-imposed media blackout also took place after the killing of Peter Moi that lasted from 8/21/15 through 11AM on 8/22/15.
The original band of ten resisters who marched onto Fort Benning and splashed blood upon the School of Americas to commemorate the first anniversary of the UCA massacre has grown in recent years to a community of 10,000.
Killing of counter admiral Quijada A few days before the inauguration of elected president Héctor Cámpora, the ERP-22 decided to launch a new action: the "Operation Mercury", whose objective was to kill Counter-admiral Hermes Quijada.
The Task Force will eventually give way to a permanent parliamentary Human Rights Commission, which will have the capacity to investigate allegations over a longer period.
On completion of basic initial training at Somers and Narrandera Catanach was posted to Canada where he learned to fly and received his pilot's wings in June 1941 being commissioned pilot officer.
However, President Jimmy Carter, who took office in January 1977, highlighted issues of human rights in Latin America, including in Argentina.
After Saribekyan's body was repatriated to Armenia on November 4, 2010 the Press Service of the Prosecutor General of Armenia informed that the forensic examination had revealed signs of torture on the body and opened a criminal investigation.
St Paul's Cathedral A ceremony was held 10 June 1888 at St Paul's Cathedral to commemorate the journalists killed during the 3 years of campaigns in Sudan and the dedication of a brass tablet, designed by Herbert Johnson listing seven journalists.
Examples United States March 20 to April 15, 1882: Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday tracked and killed 4 cowboys said to be responsible for Morgan Earp's death, which would later become known as the Earp Vendetta Ride.
In the General elections of 1965 he was an independent candidate for Diyarbakir but was not elected.
During his high school studies, the Dersim rebellion led by Seyid Riza was going on, which lead to some frictions with his Turkish classmates following which he was shortly detained.
The next day, the communist People's Guard carried out an attack on the Bar Podlaski restaurant at 15 Nowogrodzka Street, corner of Krucza Street (a place designated Nur für Deutsche and intended for SS and police officers).
The first applicant, Mulkiye Osman, was the widow of Ali Osman, who was shot dead by Paul Paget-Lewis on 7 March 1988.
A Shalinsky District's prosecutor's office said it opened a case for kidnapping, but "the steps taken to identify the individuals responsible for this crime have been unsuccessful" and the investigation was suspended on 12 December 2000.
This is a list of journalists killed in India See also List of journalists killed in Bangladesh Attacks on RTI activists in India References External links CPJ
In September, the two informed local police, who did not report the killings to higher authorities and left the remains in their place for several months to ensure that the male villager remained anonymous.
Valech Report is the report from the second truth commission in Chile, considered to have continued Rettig's work.
His aircraft was shot down by anti-aircraft fire and the crew had to bale out, all six being taken prisoner.
Makaratzis v Greece pushes these obligations further, so that the state must have mechanisms to deter offences against people.
See also Death threat Notes References CA Gearty, 'Unravelling Osman' (2001) 64(2) Modern Law Review 159 External links ECHR judgment
Politically he evolved from centre-left to extreme right: initially Requejo supported the Romanonista dynastic Liberalism, then he turned towards accidentalist Acción Católica, and finally he joined Carlism.
Hopp and other alleged accomplices in Schäfer's crimes who were charged and awaiting trial took refuge in Ewald Frank's church in Germany, where they were protected from extradition.
After that, the video of torture and mutilation of a woman captured by Azerbaijani soldiers was first released on Telegram and after a while it was found that the woman is the Armenian soldier Anush Apetyan.
His death highlights the imperative need to improve the security of media professionals in all circumstances.
The same year he also won a notable tournament in Munich (+4 –0 =1) ahead of Rudolf Spielmann and Efim Bogoljubov.
Unlike his later more sophisticated escapes Grimson simply kicked his German guard in the backside and ran, but he was quickly recaptured.
Pre-war life Gouws was born in Bultfontein, South Africa the eldest son of an Afrikaans speaking farming family of Boer tradition.
Originally cremated and buried at Sagan, he is now buried in part of the Poznan Old Garrison Cemetery.
Following his training, he was shipped overseas where he served as a Halifax tail gunner with 405 Squadron RCAF.
Frank La Rue, the UNESCO assistant director-general for communication and information said, “On average, one journalist is murdered every four days.” The journalists and media persons who were killed or murdered in 2017 References Rashid, Omar (13 February 2016).
Meanwhile, on 8 June, Sir John Fastolf finally left Paris with a reinforcing army of several thousand, headed for the Loire River valley.
By January 1936 he was a leading aircraftman posted to Basra in Iraqas an engine fitter but in November 1936 he was appointed driver with the British Embassy in Baghdad.
113 (1973) Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 Sheila Hodgers Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland Abortion in the Republic of Ireland Death of Savita Halappanavar Attorney General v.
Prisoner of war On the evening of 13–14 October 1942, Kidder took off in a Wellington Mark III bomber (serial number BJ775) from RAF Warboys to bomb targets in the German port town of Kiel.
The order required guards to shoot prisoners who engaged in resistance or escape attempts, without warning; failing to do so would result in dismissal or arrest.
After the October Revolution, Kirpichnikov planned to join the newly formed Russian White Army fighting against Bolsheviks.
Death In February 1977, Oryema, together with Archbishop Janani Luwum and Interior Minister Charles Oboth Ofumbi were arrested for an alleged coup attempt and died shortly after.
2007-2010 trial In May 2007, Chilean judge Víctor Montiglio indicted 74 former DINA agents, most of whom were previously unknown to the public, as part of the largest investigation into the operations of this secret police force.
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the Great Depression, was well received and became known as Plan Chardón.
Post-war investigations saw a number of those guilty of the murders tracked down, arrested and tried for their crimes.
Afghanistan See also War in Afghanistan (2001–present) Human rights in Afghanistan References External links The Journalists Memorial
The permanent staff's duty was to help newly captured Allied aircrew to adjust to life as prisoners of war.
It abruptly resurfaced and only two crew escaped (a wounded Leutnant and the helmsman) from a hatch before it sank again.
In May 1933, the Munich prosecutor's office, not yet assimilated to Nazi policy in the Gleichschaltung process, began investigating the murder of several prisoners at Dachau, prompted by the formal complaint of Sophie Handschuh, who wanted to know the true cause of her son's death at the camp.
In the Court's view, the astonishing ineffectiveness of the prosecuting authorities in this case could only be qualified as acquiescence in the events.
In the documentary film One Day in September (2000), it is stated that Israeli Mossad assassination squads killed both him and Mohammad Safady.
Jamal Al-Gashey can be seen seated in the middle of the three, between his cousin Adnan (believed to be the guerilla who shot and killed five of the hostages who were tied up in one of the helicopters) and Mohammed Safady.
The military, however, intercepted the convoy at Masaje, close to Yandev in Gboko local government where Gana was killed.
On the other hand, the doctrine was defined by its creator, General Perón, as deeply national, humanist and Christian, respectful of the human person above all things.
All the top leaders of the paramilitaries in Miami were there." Carriles and Bosch were both present at the meeting in Bonao, at which CORU was formed, along with Gaspar Jiménez.
Further, the school leveraged instructors returning from service in Vietnam to "insure currency of the instruction".
The Glasgow Herald of 19 May 1944 published an early list naming several officers, including Casey Awards His conspicuous bravery as a prisoner was recognised by a mention in despatches as none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
Pre-war life McGarr was born in Johannesburg, South Africa and moved with his family to Durban, in 1923.
Execution On 8 December 1922, along with three other republicans Liam Mellows, Richard Barrett and Joe McKelvey captured with the fall of the Four Courts, Rory O'Connor was executed by firing squad in reprisal for the anti-treaty IRA's killing of Free State TD Seán Hales.
In March 2009, the magazine CartaCapital published previously unreleased documents of the National Information Service created by an undercover agent who was present at Goulart's properties in Uruguay.
They had a private exchange that made a strong impression on Charles; Jean Pasquerel, Joan's confessor, later testified that Joan told him she had reassured the Dauphin that he was Charles VI's son and the legitimate king.
He completed his F-16 training in the Royal Jordanian Air Force, and by 2012, had qualified as an operational F-16 pilot and was assigned to No.
Unable to receive a direct course of action from Carter, the mixed messages that the Shah received from Vance and Brzezinski contributed to his confusion and indecision as he fled Iran in January 1979 and his regime collapsed.
The guerrillas reduced the staff and came to Garcia, who slept next to his partner, singer and actress Marina Dorel, and reassured him, while a female militant wore the uniform of one of the maids in case of the arrival of some unforeseen guest.
Extrajudicial punishment is a punishment for an alleged crime or offense which is carried out without legal process or supervision by a court or tribunal through a legal proceeding.
According to The New York Times, his father's experiences in Nazi Germany made the elder Reich "immediately suspicious of [Fidel] Castro, prompting him to flee with his family to North Carolina in 1960, when Otto was 15." In 1966, Reich received a B.A.
Between 1962 and 1966, nearly 400 Paraguayan military personnel were trained by the United States in the Panama Canal Zone and on US soil.
Gisela Seewald, who admitted the use of electroshock therapy and sedatives that her boss had claimed were placebos.
Al-Qaeda operations after 9/11 After 9/11, Interpol issued a warrant for Ayman al-Zawahiri's arrest, over his involvement in the attacks.
Located in the Floresta neighborhood of Buenos Aires, it operated during the military dictatorship of 1976–1983.
After the shootout at Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base, he was captured along with his nephew Jamal Al-Gashey, and Mohammed Safady.
Canaris was arrested on 23 July 1944 on the basis of the interrogation of his successor at Military Intelligence, Georg Hansen.
Early life Terwase, literally meaning 'God help,' was born a native of Gbishe, Kpav District, Katsina-Ala local government area of Benue State.
An autopsy of Luluyeva showed that she died from a multiple strong blows to the head with a solid blunt object at least three months before the discovery of the corpse-dumping site.
The chapel was dedicated in 1940 and was large enough to accommodate the school's entire student body, which was then 1,200.
Two weeks later, he wrote a letter to Newton's mother in which he described her son's courage and expressed the hope that he might yet be found alive.
Mehmed Reshid was appointed as the new Vali of Diyarbekir and arrived with a small private death squad composed of Circassian volunteers.
This included the fictional group's requisition and use of civilian and military vehicles, gasoline, rations, medical supplies, and other such materiel.
This document, which John Dinges received in 1979, two years after its declassification, was cited in a book, written by Dinges and Saul Landau, about the assassination of Letelier.
Sweden Cats Falck, 1984 Turkey United Kingdom Ross McWhirter, 1975 Bulgarian dissident writer and BBC journalist Georgi Markov died on 11 September 1978 after having been poisoned with a Bulgarian umbrella.
Facts Diane Pretty was suffering from motor neurone disease and was paralysed from the neck down, had little decipherable speech and was fed by a tube.
Most prominent among the victims is Hrant Dink, killed in 2007, but the death of Metin Göktepe also raised great concern, since police officers beat him to death.
Portrayal in film Al-Gashey is portrayed by French Moroccan actor Karim Saidi in the 2005 film Munich.
During World War II, he developed contacts with the 20 July plot conspirators, including Hans von Dohnanyi and Hans Oster from the military-intelligence.
Where appropriate, the United States seeks assurances that transferred persons will not be tortured.
In 1980, Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, leader of the Peace and Justice Service, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for reporting many of Argentina's human rights violations to the world at large.
Stroessner also fired the interior minister Ynsfrán in 1966, but his replacement, Sabino Augusto Montanaro (a member of the "Cuatrinomio de Oro", a group of politicians intimately connected to Stroessner) continued the same violent policies.
Crossfire is a form of staged extrajudicial killings in Bangladesh, often used to refer to the death of a person by gunshot while under the custody of a law enforcement agency.
A local policeman, trying to stop them, got into a heated argument and was fired on before the APC drove away with the detainees.
Hampton and the Panthers also used Clements's parish, Holy Angels Catholic Church in Chicago (now the parish of Our Lady of Africa), as a refuge in times of particular surveillance or pursuit from the police.
Nura Luluyeva (Chechen: Нура Лулуева; 1960 – 2000) was a Chechen woman who was kidnapped and murdered by a Russian death squad in 2000.
Da Costa began making contact with some of the student"s leaders that were anxious to return to Paraguay to make the revolution through the means of violence due to the lack of political rights and the apathy of the traditional parties of the opposition.
After the dictatorship, President Tabaré Vázquez appointed Cores political secretary of the Broad Front.
Duff enlisted into Captain John Williams' Company in Cahokia and rose to the rank of sergeant in the Illinois Regiment.
Manhunt and amnesty First amnesty Gana lived in the jungle cohabiting with wild animals until Monday, 31 August 2015 when he first appeared in public to embrace the amnesty granted by Samuel Ortom, Governor of Benue State for criminals in the state.
During World War I, Kirpichnikov fought on the Austrian front, was wounded in the hand and after a hospital stay ended up in Petrograd.
The applicants' complaints were directed at the failure of the authorities to appreciate and act on what they claim was a series of clear warning signs that Paget-Lewis represented a serious threat to the physical safety of Ahmet Osman and his family.
Exiled as a critic of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, he was targeted for assassination by Operation Condor.
At 9 o´clock, part of the twelve combatants who would be involved in the operation gathered at the Carupá station.
Twenty-one prisoners were taken from the kiosk, placed against the wall, and shot without trial on the orders of the French Capitaine Marcel Dingeon, who was Abbeville's deputy commander.
This chapel was considered the most beautiful in the Philippines and had few rivals in the District, although the Brothers would regret about the chapel's limited size.
Some time later in 1940 there was a show trial in Skidel of 15 individuals including three women, two Tartars and two Polish Russians, who aided the Polish Army which briefly retook Skidel on 19 September.
On 20 July 1920, Canaris became admiral's staff officer at the Marinestation der Ostsee (Baltic Naval Station) command.
Leigh had been recommended for a commission and was commissioned pilot officer and allocated service number 46462 on 30 September 1941 (with effect from 2 August 1941).
When the association was banned by King Alexander's dictatorship, he reformed it together with Ivan Merz under the name "Crusaders" ("Križari").
Jungle justice (also known as mob justice or street justice) is a form of extrajudicial punishment carried out by angry mobs or vigilante groups against individuals accused of crimes.
The details of his capture and execution were only revealed later that year in a diary found on a Japanese soldier.
25781/94) is a case raised by Cyprus against Turkey in 1994 and decided on merits by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in 2001.
Other countries implicated in the archives include Peru (which joined Operation Condor in 1978 along with Ecuador), Venezuela, and Colombia, which cooperated, to various degrees, by providing intelligence information that had been requested by the security services of the Southern Cone countries.
He resigned from the Bush administration in 2004, and has since run a consulting firm and advised Republican presidential candidates.
The names of these victims were in most cases never established, as the captured Jews were not entered in the Pawiak's records at all.
Anthony Ross Henzell Hayter (20 May 1920 – 6 April 1944) was a Royal Air Force Vickers Wellington bomber pilot who was taken prisoner during the Second World War.
Aliyev was the founder of the Priboi and Vatan radio stations and director of the TNT-Makhachkala television network and was known for his anti-Wahhabist views, which were reflected in his radio and TV stations.
Awards Almada received several awards for his courage and work, including the prize "Antorcha a la libertad" of the Libre Foundation in Asunción in 1999 and the Right Livelihood Award in 2002.
As concerns Pretty's right to respect for private life under Article 8, the Court considered that the interference in this case might be justified as "necessary in a democratic society" for the protection of the rights of others.
The only reason that God allowed us this extra ration of life is so we can make life hell for the Hun...
The unmasking of Kunze happened by accident; he had been in the habit of passing notes to the American doctor at the camp during sick call.
The British White Paper of 1939 allowed only 75,000 Jews to immigrate to Mandatory Palestine over five years, and no more after that unless local Arabs gave their permission.
He was subsequently imprisoned for this act and bishops Akšamović and Bonefačić were brought in by the authorities for questioning.
On one occasion he was wounded in combat and, on recovery, he resumed operational flying with renewed zest.
The new group became well known by the epithet La Cagoule ('The Hood'), a term that was first applied by Charles Maurras and Maurice Pujo of Action Française, as the group's tactics reminded them of the American Ku Klux Klan; the name was subsequently embraced by the press.
As of May 2022, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs estimates 6,036 Palestinian fatalities and 272 Israeli fatalities as a result of the conflict since 2008.
This new imprisonment of Ananías Maidana would last twenty years, and would mean practically a lifetime of suffering and torture for him.
Juan Manuel de Rosas, the powerful governor of Buenos Aires, contended that this violated the Federal Pact.
In 2019, Congress amended ATA with the Promoting Security and Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act of 2019 (PSJVTA) which specifically created a cause of action against the PLO and PA.
On 7 June, while the Attuans were returning home from church, 1,170 Japanese soldiers attacked them and rounded them up.
Reich Minister of Justice Franz Gurtner was in contact with Reichsführer-SS Himmler to mitigate the Postenpflicht a bit, but he was unable to accomplish anything.
He sent the prisoners to Tarragona or any other town, and in the middle of the road, the escort that was chosen for that purpose, killed them with bayonets, alleging that he had tried to escape.
40 Squadron SAAF which was then back in South Africa, the squadron's personnel were flown to Egypt to join the Desert Air Force.
The police, clarifying that it is not work-related, said that the motive was allegedly a land dispute.
South Sudan, located in northeast Africa, has seen the number of slayings of journalists jump since the start of the South Sudanese Civil War in 2013.
On 5 October 1975, Montoneros members hijacked a civilian airliner bound for Corrientes from Buenos Aires.
Matsievskyi's territorial defense forces' comrades reporting his group of four soldiers went missing on 30 December 2022, following a failed counter attack on the outskirts of Soledar.
5 Group RAF, Bomber Command in a bomber role, its first operation took place while the squadron was still forming, when a single Hampden attacked Frankfurt at night on 29 August.
As the man is heard saying "Slava Ukraini" ("Glory to Ukraine"), salvos of automatic weapons from multiple sides are heard and seen shooting the man, who collapses.
However, a few days later, Akram's family released four recorded mobile phone calls between Akram and his daughter and wife before he died from a bullet wound.
On the night of 4 September, Al-Gashey met for dinner with the other members of the strike team, along with a senior Black September operative (believed to be Abu Daoud), who briefed them on their upcoming mission and drove with them in taxis to the Olympic Village.
The scandal The scandal followed after the killings were condemned by Edvard Kocbek in an interview that appeared as a special edition of the journal Zaliv; it was written by two Slovene writers from Trieste, Boris Pahor and Alojz Rebula, and published in Italy.
The film 'Chronicle of an Escape' (2006) directed by Adrián Caetano recreates the true story of the escape from this center by Claudio Tamburrini, Daniel Rusomano, Guillermo Fernández, and Carlos García.
Awards Reportedly Mentioned in despatches for bravery as a prisoner of war (none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously).
Bashar al-Assad took his father's policy further and considered any voice questioning anything about Syria's political, economic, social, or otherwise policies should be monitored and when needed, detained and accused of weakening national empathy.
This means that during Kutschera's tenure, between 270 and 300 people were being killed in Warsaw weekly.
One such prayer reads: Thy martyr, Yevgeny, O Lord, in his sufferings hath received an incorruptible crown from Thee, our God, for having Thy strength he hath brought down his torturers, hath defeated the powerless insolence of demons.
Government forces took victims by plane or helicopter out to sea, dropping them to their deaths in planned disappearances.
At the initiative of his local pastor, Father Bešar, he then enrolled in the classical eight-year secondary school in Ljubljana, during which time he lived in Our Lady's Student Dormitory (Slovene: Marijanišče).
McElduff and other soldiers were on reconnaissance, for General Clark, observing the British movements, near the Mississippi River.
Background The events The revolt of 18 September 1939 was organized by the Communist Party of West Belarus which was outlawed by Poland in 1938.
2010 Malik Mohammad Arif, a Samaa TV camera operator, was killed by a suicide bomber on 16 April 2010.
See also Displaced persons camps in post–World War II Europe Jewish Legion Jewish Brigade Bricha Haganah Sh'erit ha-Pletah Nakam Gmul References Bibliography Beckman, Morris (1999).
'Great Escape' For the Great Escape operation Pohe was one of the tunnellers and one of the 76 men who escaped the prison camp on the night of 24–25 March 1944, in the escape now famous as "the Great Escape".
Prized for its colourful foliage, which provides both summer and winter interest, it is widely available commercially.
The 10–16 cm white flowers that emerge from early to late spring, while beautiful and thick with a citrus-lemon fragrance, are prone to browning if subjected to frost.
Sunthorn Phu, Thailand’s eminent bard of the Early Bangkok Era, mentioned the plant in many of his poems.
It has been introduced and naturalized in some parts of Europe, including the Czech Republic and former Yugoslavia.
Endemic to Brazil, it is an evergreen shrub that becomes semi-deciduous in cooler areas and grows up to 1.8 meters (6 feet) in height.
The tree produces a fleshy, light green toxic fruit; once the fruit splits, the seeds are consumed by birds and other wildlife.
It is propagated by dividing the roots or cutting off a top and placing it upside down in a glass of water.
External links Russian website with several images of the iris Photo album Archived 2016-10-22 at the Wayback Machine Media related to Iris camillae at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Iris camillae at Wikispecies
There is a prominent, dark brown gland below the lowest pinna and sometimes a gland at the base of the uppermost pinnae.
Description The Weeping Higan Cherry grows to a height 20 to 30 feet (6 to 9 m) with a spread of 15 to 25 feet (5 to 8 m).
Spiraea salicifolia, the bridewort, willow-leaved meadowsweet, spice hardhack, or Aaron's beard, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
Very moist fields will have increased rates of infection as the amount of moisture makes it easy for the zoospores to move through the soil and infect tubers.
This chorological shift may possibly be due to climatic change and the migration of mountain flora by way of river courses.
"Blue-green" mealybugs are a group of related mealybug genera whose insides, during adulthood, are usually of the color which gives them their collective name.
Cultivation When grown in a garden it may require light pruning right after blooming, but otherwise plants can be left alone in fall and early spring.
The leaves stay glossy green throughout the summer and into the fall when they turn a vivid yellow before leaving the tree bare in winter.
External links Encyclopædia Britannica Clemson Home & Garden Medline Plus: Dieffenbachia Botanical Online: Dieffenbachia Speedup Video – Dieffenbachia growth
In the middle of the falls, is a dense, row of short hairs called the 'beard', which is dark yellow, or bright yellow with purple red tips.
Description The plant has aromatic glossy, green, round leaves, which show a deep purple color in the center sometimes and tend to trail, reaching a height of between 10 and 30 cm and extends around 60 cm.
Juveniles take 5–7 years to flower and set seed, whereafter the populations are ready to burn again.
A feature of the whekī is the spreading underground rhizomes which can create dense groves, making it one of the most common tree ferns in New Zealand forests.
The flowers display in a sequence from the lowest point, those following are in a progression of development.
The species has long falcate (sickle-shaped) or ensiform (sword-shaped) leaves, a long thick stem and large fragrant flowers that come in shades of purple brown, reddish-black, black-brown, dark brown, dark lilac or dark purple.
Distribution The species is found in coastal areas of Spain, Italy, Croatia and Albania In Italy it is found on the coast of Tuscany and western Sicily and on the islands of Capri and Li Galli.
The deciduous, elegant and compact multi-stemmed small flowering tree or large shrub, slowly attaining a height of 20 ft (6.1 m) and somewhat wider at maturity, is hardy to USDA Zone 4.
They are added to spreads such as butter or fruit preserves, as well as to vinegar, marinades, and dressings.
'White Rose' was an open pollinated seedling of ‘Ballerina.' Magnolia × loebneri is susceptible to magnolia scale, just like other saucer, star, and lily magnolias.
Violet species occupy a diverse array of habitats, from bogs (Viola lanceolata) to dry hill prairies (V.
More than ten subpopulations have been observed, and the species' estimated extent of occurrence is 2,750 to 3,000 km2.
integrifolia, but differs in having longer, narrower leaves, and follicles that are more deeply embedded in the old flower spike.
Etymology The species was originally called Nasturtium indicum ("Indian nasturtium") but the plant is not related to the true Nasturtium genus.
The pruning preserves the flower-bearing shoots of the preceding year, while keeping the tree low enough to allow the easy gathering of the fruit.
Some individuals have leaves with a surface that is scabrous (rough) or papillate (bearing minute, nipple-shaped protuberances).
Conservation It is range and habitat is a small region, and the plant was listed by the IUCN as 'rare'.
The flowers are fragrant, cup-shaped, 15–25 cm broad, with nine thick, creamy white to pink tepals; stamens ca.
Human use The whekī is quite hardy and tolerant to sun and some wind, but is best suited to a site with partial shade and minimal wind.
If more than half of the crown is defoliated, most hardwoods will produce a second flush of foliage by midsummer.
Ligularia przewalskii, also called Przewalski's leopardplant and Przewalski's golden ray, is a species of perennial herbaceous plant in the genus Ligularia and the family Asteraceae, native to damp places in Mongolia and Northern China.
In 1977, 47 species of the irises in the Oncocyclus section were analysed, and it was found to have a chromosome count of 2n=20.
Port Melbourne: Elsevier Australia - Inkata Imprint, copyright Forestry Commission of New South Wales (published 1989-12-01).
Growth Philodendron adamantinum is a shrub that grows up to 5 feet (1.5 m) tall, and its adventitious roots can spread 33 feet (10 m) in all directions.
sibiricus which were found in the most eastern part of the Western Sayan and in the upper Naryn River.
The tip of the leaf is usually blunt, often slightly notched at the tip, but can be pointed, particularly on strong-growing shoots on young trees.
Growing to about 6–12 inches (15–30 centimetres) tall, it makes a mass of pink, purple and white fragrant four petalled (cruciform) flowers.
Once valued because of its long, straight trunk, its current rarity and vulnerable status mean its wood is now rarely used; it is also sacred to some indigenous Mapuche.
These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips.
It is noted for its centre turning red when it's about to flower, from where the common name (blushing) is derived.
These have been given similar common names, portmanteaus that combine the '-quat' ending of kumquat with an indication of the other parent citrus.
"Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlântica Brasileira: lista de espécies, distribuição e conservação" [Bromeliaceae of the brazilian Atlantic Forest: checklist, distribution and conservation].
It has also invaded the Kurulukele Forest Reserve in Kegalla, Sri Lanka, and other places where it has been planted as a decorative plant, or to hold steep banks along roads.
"Phylogenetic Analysis of Mealybugs (Hemiptera: Coccoidae: Pseudococcidae) Based on DNA sequences from Three Nuclear Genes, and a Review of the Higher Classification".
Distribution and habitat Coronidium newcastlianum is found along the Great Dividing Range in the Einasleigh Uplands bioregions of Queensland where it grows in eucalypt woodlands on rocky hills.
The palm's trunk grows to 9 m (30 ft) tall, or more sometimes, and is 20–25 cm (8–10 in) in diameter, when free of the leaf base fibers that tend to remain for a good while.
Malathion, methoxychlor, phosmet, trichlorfon, and synthetic pyrethroids (permethrin) are also registered with the EPA, but are used infrequently.
Distribution The species occurs naturally in parts of southern and central Africa, including South Africa, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Angola.
Convolvulus cneorum, the silverbush or shrubby bindweed, is a species of flowering plant in the family Convolvulaceae, which contains many plants described as "bindweed".
It has remained in comparative obscurity until recently, when its qualities as a garden plant were at last realized.
The rose was awarded the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit in 1993 and inducted into the Rose Hall of Fame in 2009 as "World's Favourite Rose".
Haworthia zantneriana is a species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, subfamily Asphodeloideae, endemic to the southern parts of the Western Cape and Eastern Cape Provinces in South Africa.
Yellow Bells have a similar nutrient profile to a potato but have 50 percent more protein, six times as much calcium, and nearly 30 times more iron.
The flowers are solitary yellow cups formed from four overlapping petals, 5–7 cm across, vaguely resembling the unrelated tulip; the two sepals underneath typically fall away as the flower opens.
Lilium speciosum contains phenolic glycosides, such as 6′-O-feruloylsucrose and (25R,26R)-26-methoxyspirost-5-en-3β-ol 3-O-α-l-rhamnopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-d-glucopyranoside, and steroidal saponins.
In the wild, plants are often half-buried, leaving only the tips of the leaves visible above the soil.
The flowers are grouped in panicles (with many branching stems), hence the specific epithet paniculata.
The taste and color of nectar widely vary between different species of flower; consequently, honey may vary in color and taste depending on the species of flower.
Virus taxonomy : classification and nomenclature of viruses : ninth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.
During his historic journey, Meriwether Lewis collected a specimen while passing through Idaho in 1806.
A deciduous tuberous geophyte reaching 0.5 m (20 in), it is typically found in scrublands and forests at elevations from 1,300 to 2,400 m (4,300 to 7,900 ft).
It is also a popular ornamental tree in parks and large gardens, and along with the cultivar 'Golden Spreader' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The cultivar 'The Rocket' is a recipient of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Description Jasmine can be either deciduous or evergreen, and can be erect, spreading, or climbing shrubs and vines.
It has inflated, green spathes (leaves of the flower bud), that are 10 cm (4 in) long, and the perianth tube is about 3 centimetres (1.2 in) in length.
Erythronium dens-canis, the dog's-tooth-violet is a bulbous herbaceous perennial flowering plant in the family Liliaceae.
The species was first described by Carl Linnaeus in his landmark 1758 10th edition of Systema Naturae.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia mirabilis, Haworthia emelyae and Haworthia magnifica).
This species is variable and has multiple different regional forms: Flowers appear in September and October.
Distribution and habitat Euonymus alatus′s native distribution extends from northeastern Asia to central China.
Calathea louisae) is a species of plant belonging to the genus Goeppertia, native to Rio de Janeiro state of southeast Brazil but cultivated in other places as an ornamental.
Hybrids and cultivars In 1897, an illustration in The Garden magazine of 31 July, showed a border in Mr Van Tubergen's nursery with 400 flowers, which are the results of 3 seasons of cultivation of the irises.
These flowering trees are beautifully colored and are often planted both privately and commercially as ornamentals.
Host plants Buddleja – Buddleia, butterfly bush Himantoglossum hircinum – lizard orchid Scrophularia – figworts Verbascum – mulleins References Bibliography Heath, John; A.
Its leaves are usually 10–50 mm long and 5–30 mm wide, and may vary in size, texture, colour and margin.
Zoospores are motile asexual spores that can move through soil water through the use of their flagella.
The conventional way this fruit is eaten is when the outer casing is still unripe while the seeds are eaten as the fruit.
These hybrids combine some of the edibility properties of the more typical Citrus species with the cold hardiness of the kumquats, often being referred to as cold hardy citrus.
Taxonomy The species was first described by a Scottish botanist David Don in 1834 from the type specimen: This singularly beautiful species of Anigozanthos was raised in the garden at Whitmore Lodge, Berks., the seat of Robert Mangles, Esq.
The leaves resemble those of the closely related Eschscholzia, being finely divided into many gray-green linear lobes.
This type of grassland has been reduced to a fraction of its pristine range by forces such as overgrazing and the channelization of water.
For example, TNV has a high level of resistance to heat and chemical agents, as well as to degradation due to aging.
The origin of the popular English language name "monkey puzzle" lies in its early cultivation in Britain c.
Taxonomy For a general description of the taxonomic and nomenclature confusion, see Paghat's Garden, especially for the relationship between T.
The trees are dioecious, and the fruit is a hard-shelled bean in heavy, woody, thick-walled pods filled with sweet, thick, gooey pulp.
Many sources claim that roasting the seeds for a certain length of time can reduce or eliminate the cytisine thought to be in them, but this is not based on scientific evidence.
Another common (but somewhat ambiguous) name is "yellow bells", since it has a bell-shaped yellow flower.
The leaves that it produces in the spring are large, up to 16" (40 cm) long, among the largest of all colchicum species.
They are part of the necklace that a plant deity wears in a vase found in the Templo Mayor, although it could also be T.
The heavily clustered figs suggest fecundity, and some trees in East Africa have been venerated as sacred shrines in animist practices.
yamasakura, and cultivars of Sato-zakura group such as 'Fugenzo' and 'Mikurumakaishi' began to appear.
Wilt disease caused by a particular nucleopolyhedrovirus (LdNPV) that is specific to the gypsy moth is its most devastating natural disease, causing a dramatic collapse of outbreak populations by killing both the larvae and pupae.
However officially according to the World Checklist and The Plant List it is considered Narcissus cernuus.
Ecology Ruffed lemurs are a known pollinator of this plant and given the size and structure of the inflorescences, as well as the lemur's selectivity, method of feeding, and long muzzle, this relationship is thought to have coevolved.
The specific epithet divaricata is from Latin and refers to the wide-spreading branchlets of the flower panicle.
Codiaeum variegatum, commonly known as croton or variegated croton amongst many other names, is a species of plant in the Euphorbiaceae family.
In Japanese, fugen refers to Samantabhadra and zo refers to an elephant, and the origin of the name comes from the fact that the two pistils, which look like leaves, were likened to the tusks of a white elephant on which Samantabhadra rides.
Olive growing in the United States is primarily concentrated in warmer regions like California, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Georgia, and Florida.
Leaflets are 5 to 15 cm long, 1.5 to 6 cm wide, hairy and leathery, and usually not with a sharp point.
Boea is a genus of plants in the family Gesneriaceae, with species originating from Australia, China, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Polynesia, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, Nepal, Bhutan, Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos.
In 1969, Albert Smith transferred the species to Tasmannia based on its chromosome number of 13, compared to 43 in most others in Drimys.
Amberboa moschata (common name sweetsultan) is a Southwest Asian species of plants in the family Asteraceae.
In the temperate zones of Europe many of the hybrid large flowering sorts of gladiolus can be pollinated by small well-known wasps.
amazonica has longer leaf blades ((20–)30–40(–50) cm × (10–)12–18 cm), subulate free filaments (2.8–3.4 mm wide at the base), and staminal cups (11.2–13.8 mm long to the apex of teeth) longer than free filaments (6.5–8(–10) mm long).
The cultivars 'Compactus' and 'Fire Ball' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The leaves are dark green, elliptic toothed and 2–4 cm long, with irregularly lobed margins, and turn to yellow and reddish tones in autumn.
The glossy, evergreen foliage forms a billowing mound, with many fragrant, pure white flowers in tight clusters for several weeks during spring and early summer.
Description Magnolia campbellii is a medium-sized to large deciduous tree growing to 30 m, rarely to 45 m, tall, with smooth grey bark.
These flowers are variously coloured, ranging from pink to reddish or light purple with white, contrasting markings, or white to cream or orange to red.
It varies little except in northern New South Wales and southern Queensland, where some populations appear to be intermediate with B.
Ecology Pests and diseases The tree has considerable variability in resistance to Dutch elm disease; for example, trees from north-western and north-eastern China exhibit significantly higher tolerance than those from central and southern China.
Though Swingle had speculated that the Meiwa kumquat was a hybrid of oval and round kumquats, the genomic analysis suggested instead that the round kumquat was an oval/Meiwa hybrid.
The fruit is a dehiscent, two-chambered capsule, black/brown, densely hairy and about 35 mm (1.4 in) wide and long.
quadrans Hopper Distribution of the subspecies is as far north as Shark Bay, variation in habit and structure of the subspecies is otherwise discrete.
Cultivation A number of geranium species are cultivated for horticultural use and for pharmaceutical products.
In cultivation, it is preferable to keep a cold temperature, but more than 2 °C (36 °F) This plant has won the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Magnolia 'Butterflies' is a hybrid Magnolia that is the offspring of a cross between the cucumbertree Magnolia acuminata (seed parent) and the Yulan magnolia Magnolia denudata (pollen parent).
The hindwing of the male is whitish, with dark veins and cellspot, becoming diffusely fuscous along the termen; in the female it is darker throughout.
It occurs on various wild and garden forms of anemone, and has particular commercial importance on Anemone coronaria grown for cut flowers, for example in France and Italy.
Some have been assigned separate species names, though there is no agreement on the validity of these names.
Achillea is a reference to the Greek hero Achilles, who was trained to use herbs by his mentor, the centaur Chiron.
The species is reportedly naturalised in Florida, Chiapas, Central America, Queensland, and much of the West Indies.
Some studies indicate the effectiveness of the latter in the prevention of coronary artery disease, heart attacks, immune response, old age and cancer.
Meissner divided Brown's Banksia verae, which had been renamed Eubanksia by Stephan Endlicher in 1847, into four series based on leaf properties.
References External links Viburnum leaf beetle on the UF / IFAS Featured Creatures Web site [1] PEST ALERT: Viburnum Leaf Beetle [2] Penn State College of Agriculture Gardeners' World Bugguide.net.
Miscanthus nepalensis, Himalayan fairy grass, is a species of flowering plant in the grass family Poaceae, native to mountain slopes in China (Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan), Bhutan, India, Myanmar and Nepal, and introduced in Malaysia.
Their salmon-colored, broadly egg-shaped to almost circular corolla lobes are narrowed or rounded at their tip and have a length of 2 to 4 millimeters and are 1.5 to 3 millimeters wide.
They are slightly succulent, fleshy with a waxy glossy surface, 3–5 centimetres (1.2–2.0 in) wide and 3.5–13 centimetres (1.4–5.1 in) long, with a petiole of about 1–1.5 centimetres (0.39–0.59 in).
The long-lasting, capitate-pyramidal inflorescences, branched at the base and simple at the apex, are composed of spike-like inflorescences.
Phytochemistry The seeds are very poisonous, containing erythroidine, a powerful muscle relaxant; erythroresin, an emetic; coralin; and erythric acid.
Iceland poppies are amongst the best poppies for cutting, as they last for several days in the vase.
In the mid-seventh-century Lombard laws, a composition of one solidi is set for felling a chestnut tree (or, also, hazel, pear or apple) belonging to another person (Edictum Rothari, No.
A western form, inhabiting shale rocks near Oudtshoorn, is sometimes considered a separate species, Haworthia truteriorum.
Native to central and southern Chile and western Argentina, it is the hardiest species in the conifer genus Araucaria.
It is a native of Eastern Cape Province, South Africa, and found in arid shrublands, most commonly on ridges and slopes with shallow soils.
Toxicity Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), and if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting.
Sap Obtaining the sap traditionally involves tapping the top shoots and collecting the dripping juice in hanging earthen pots (in some regions a plastic or bamboo bottle).
Description This species has a fast growth rate of up to 10 to 80 cm (4 to 31 in) a year, growing to about 6 m (20 ft) tall.
Trollius asiaticus, the Asian globeflower, is a species of ornamental plant in the family Ranunculaceae, which is native to Asia and Europe.
Gallery References ANU Forestry Illawarra plum - Podocarpus elatus Bruneteau, Jean-Paul, Tukka, Real Australian Food, ISBN 0-207-18966-8.
The type specimen was collected by Edward Palmer, one of the main US plant collectors of his time, in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas (possibly near Ciudad Victoria) in 1907.
Though perennial, the species is often cultivated as a biennial or annual plant, particularly in colder areas where it may not survive the winter.
Cultivars Several cultivars have been named, including 'Alba' (white flowers), 'Charles Raffil' (bright purple-pink flowers; starts flowering on younger trees), and 'Strybing White' (white flowers).
Botanist Karl Moritz Schumann named it after Wilhelm Lenninghaus (1845-1918), a native of North Rhine-Westphalia who, in the 1880s, left his hometown of Ennepetal and emigrated to Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he became Guillermo Lenninghaus, and collected cacti for the German grower Haage.
A spreading perennial, it is recommended as a pollinator-attracting ground cover, for rock and gravel gardens, and for planting beneath roses.
Primula is found in mountainous or higher latitude zones of North America, Europe, and Asia, with extension into South America, Africa (mountains of Ethiopia) and tropical Asia (islands of Java and Sumatra).
It is not hardy, and requires protection when temperatures fall below 5 °C (41 °F) (USDA Zones: 9a–11b).
See also Tristaniopsis collina, hill water gum Syzygium francisii, giant water gum Syzygium crebrinerve, black water gum == References ==
Hoya carnosa, the porcelain flower or wax plant, is a species of flowering plant in the family Apocynaceae, native to East Asia.
Occurrence The lenga beech can be found in the Torres del Paine National Park, Tierra del Fuego National Park, Los Alerces National Park and Nahuel Huapi National Park among other places.
When mature, 'Stargazers' can grow to a height of 36 inches with a spread of 10 to 14 inches with 2 to 8 flowers per stem.
It is found in eastern South Africa in the provinces of KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo, Namibia, Angola and Botswana and in eastern tropical Africa into Ethiopia.
Rubrums were a predecessor commercial lily to the 'Stargazers' whose flowers pointed down to the ground.
It prefers sunshine and moist (but drained) soil, and is tolerant of severe winter cold, but not heat.
Its rosette of succulent leaves are turned back ("retuse") so as to provide a flat and level face, on the surface of the ground.
The stimulus is transmitted as an action potential from a stimulated leaflet to the leaflet's swollen base (pulvinus), and from there to the pulvini of the other leaflets, which run along the length of the leaf's rachis.
It is native in Greece and Albania and may be naturalized elsewhere in Mediterranean Europe where it occurs in maritime sandy habitats and in waste places.
Evidence of large amount of macro-charcoals in the top layers of soil suggest that Alsophila tricolor establishes itself in areas where anthropogenic fires occur.
Pure stands usually indicate sites unfavorable to conifer growth or recurring disturbance such as fire or logging activities.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia pygmaea, Haworthia mirabilis and Haworthia magnifica).
It is a banyan of the genus Ficus which contains around 750 species worldwide in warm climates, including the edible fig (Ficus carica).
The cypselas are about 1.3 mm (0.051 in) long and the pappus has thread-like bristles joined at the base.
In spite of its scientific and common names, it is native to the western Mediterranean region, and it has been introduced to the British Isles, and to Tasmania.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 18 January 2006.
In the face of urban development, inappropriate fire management, and invasive alien trees such as pines and gums, silvertrees have been driven from about 74% of their natural range.
Root rot can be a problem in potted indoor plants, if the soil is too moist or does not contain enough inert drainage material.
Use in horticulture A cultivar known as Kennedia nigricans 'Minstrel' was registered with the Australian Cultivar Registration Authority by Goldup Nursery of Mount Evelyn, Victoria in September 1985.
Its leaves can be up to 25 cm (10 in) long, with a mix of purplish, green, and silvery green blotches.
It is native to tropical and Southern Africa but has become naturalized in other parts of the world, including Western Australia and Bangladesh.
The common names comes from that of Cornus sanguinea, the hard wood of which Northern Europeans used to make nails ("dags") during the medieval era.
External links Erythrina coralloides photos International Legume Database & Information Service: Erythrina coralloides
Hoya carnosa has been in cultivation for more than 200 years and has given rise to many cultivars that vary in foliage form or flower color.
Podocarpus elatus, known as the plum pine, the brown pine, the Illawarra plum or the Queensland Christmas tree, is a species of Podocarpus endemic to the east coast of Australia, in eastern New South Wales and eastern Queensland.
The species has been collected in a tropical deciduous forest, among roadside limestone rocks, and on limestone outcrops.
The gravel along railroad beds provides ideal conditions for its growth - well-drained, nutrient-poor soil, and high light conditions; these beds provide corridors that facilitate its spread.
Since the 2000s, bara has been used by non-Japanese audience as an umbrella term to describe a wide variety of Japanese and non-Japanese gay media featuring love and sex between masculine men.
Description Pelargonium radens is an evergreen perennial plant, growing to up to 1.5 m (4 ft 11 in) high.
Interns, aides, and other White House workers are often granted clippings of the famous plant which they grow and further distribute to friends and family.
The stem has pale green spathes, (leaves of the flower bud), that are between 10–12.5 cm (4–5 in) long.
It can usually be distinguished from these however, by the tip of the free portion of each drupe of its fruit-head, which usually does not have an areole.
In spring (November to December) it bears 15 cm (6 in) long stems of green-white, tubular flowers in racemes.
It is adapted to a wide variety of fire regimes, with intervals ranging from just one year on dry sites, to 500 years or more in moist, riparian zones.
The flowers are star-shaped, with at least 12 thin, delicate petal-like tepals, some cultivars having more than 30.
The flowers are 2.5–6 cm in diameter, mildly scented, with five petals, eight stamens, and a 2.5–3-cm-long nectar spur at the rear.
Cultivars of French origin include Bouche de Betizac, Maraval, Marigoule, Marsol, and Precoce Migoule.
Although Alan Meerow and Bijan Dehgan in 1984 corrected this mistake, the long-time confusion between the two species has persisted and U.
The species is cultivated as an ornamental and has become naturalized in many areas, including Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and in southern and western parts of the United States.
Soil moisture levels that are close to field capacity, whether the water comes from rainfall or irrigation, have been shown to increase the likelihood of soil-borne diseases.
See also List of Philodendron species References Media related to Philodendron erubescens at Wikimedia Commons
The pollen production of P.rhoeas, on a per flower basis, was very high in comparison with the other plants tested, at almost triple the amount of the top-ranked perennial (a mallow).
Cultivars References Martinelli, Gustavo; Vieira, Cláudia Magalhães; Gonzalez, Marcos; Leitman, Paula; Piratininga, Andréa; Costa, Andrea Ferreira da; Forzza, Rafaela Campostrini (January 2008).
External links The dictionary definition of kumquat at Wiktionary Data related to Fortunella at Wikispecies Kumquat at the Wikibooks Cookbook subproject
Arytera divaricata, known as the gap axe, coogara, coogera or rose tamarind is a forest tree of eastern Australia.
Uses Trachycarpus fortunei has been cultivated in China and Japan for thousands of years, for its coarse but very strong leaf sheath fibre, used for making rope, sacks, and other coarse cloth where great strength is important.
Wildlife value This is one of the food plants for the caterpillars of several butterflies and moths, including the gatekeeper and the meadow brown, the small heath, and the grass moth Agriphila inquinatella.
odorata adds inimitable sweetness to desserts, fruit salads, and teas while the mild pea flavor of V.
Until recently, only a few of the ten or so species that exist have been used in breeding programs for the hybrids available in the market; most of the cultivars available as house plants are derived from Streptocarpus ionanthus (syn.
Use as a natural dye Like other goldenrod species, the leaves and inflorescences of tall goldenrod are widely used as a natural dye.
Uses Lolium multiflorum is widely used to provide large forage yields in short term leys where persistence of the crop is not a priority.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003 and then updated on 2 December 2004.
barbata does not cluster with the remaining species previously assigned to that genus, without creating five further subgenera.
The leaves are strongly aromatic when crushed, egg-shaped with the lower end towards the base, often appearing wedge-shaped, 4–6 mm (0.16–0.24 in) long, 3.5–5 mm (0.14–0.20 in) wide and sessile or on a petiole up to 0.5 mm (0.020 in) long.
While they have reached maturity by autumn, producing 3-5 seeds each, it is not until the spring, after they've been exposed to freezing and thawing, that the bitter fruits become a favorite food source of many birds and mammals.
Gallery See also Kitchen garden Hwajeon, a small sweet pancake made with edible flower petals References Further reading Barash, C.
Capraria lanceolata L.f.) is a species of shrub in the potato family Solanaceae that is native to tropical regions of North and South America.
In contrast with the angular notching of the silver maple, however, the notches tend to be rounded at their interior.
Description Kalanchoe sexangularis is a succulent, perennial that reaches heights of 20 to 100 centimeters.
In May, it has fragranced flowers (between light yellow to mustard), with a dark signal patch and yellow beard with purple tips.
Since crape myrtles are found in many places, opinions differ as to how to cultivate them in landscaping.
Description It is a twining evergreen climber, growing to 3 metres (9.8 ft) or more, with panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers in summer.
hygroscopica, also known as the Queensland rock violet in Australia, occurs in Cape York Peninsula and Northeast Queensland as far south as Rockhampton, from 60–900 metres (200–2,950 ft) elevation.
Taxonomy Acacia elata was first formally described in 1842 by the botanist George Bentham from an unpublished description by Allan Cunningham in William Jackson Hooker's London Journal of Botany.
Selected child plants include, 'Anne Boleyn' (1991), 'Evelyn' (1992), 'The Pilgrim' (1991), 'Versigny' (1992), 'Charlotte' (1994), 'Molineux' (1994), and 'Charity' (1998).
The upright racemes appear white, pale violet or pale pink and can sprout sporadically throughout the year (but more typically in spring and late autumn), which form verticillasters of 2-4 flowers and 2–3 mm bracts.
Trollius asiaticus, is considered to be a key ancestral specie as it acts a maternal form from which other species such as T.
When Mengniu had financial trouble as the result of business following its role in the 2008 Chinese milk scandal, in July 2009, Mengniu sold a 20% stake to a consortium led by the state-owned COFCO Group, China's largest importer and exporter of food.
Black tar heroin is often produced in Latin America, and is most commonly found in the western and southern parts of the United States, while also being occasionally found in Western Africa.
Contaminated syrups The outbreak in Madhya Pradesh was primarily linked to Coldrif, produced by Sresan Pharmaceuticals, which contained approximately 48.6% diethylene glycol (DEG), far exceeding permissible limits and causing multiple child fatalities.
Health concerns Because of the woody core of the cobs of corn, the alcohol produced contains high levels of methanol, which is toxic.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev called for a ban on non-traditional alcoholic liquids like bath oils, saying "it's an outrage, and we need to put an end to this".
Justice Woodward noted that the scale of the operation could not be properly assessed due to attempts to cover it up, but said that the types of meat used as substitutes would be easily obtained in the eastern states of Australia.
The company supplies 2,300 institutions within the UK, including schools, old-age people homes, prisons and branches of the armed forces.
Excessive intake of NPN can have adverse effects on animal health and productivity, as well as environmental implications.
See also Antioxidant Photolysis (photodegradation) Radical (chemistry) References External links "Weird chemical used in plastics has erupted as latest fentanyl adulterant".
Despite his requests, the Army was dedicated to supporting the Chicago meatpacking industry, which eventually shipped hundreds of tons of refrigerated and canned beef to the Army from the mainland.
Police found photos of contaminated baby food on his laptop with jars identical to those found in Rochdale.
Counterfeit cannabis buds: Hemp buds (or low-potency cannabis buds) laced with synthetic cannabinoids.
The municipal pharmaceutical inspector, María Elisa Álvarez Obaya, started to think about possibility of poisoning, when she noticed four victims had been in the same party.
However, according to the internationally harmonized guideline, ICH Q7, API manufacturers are fully responsible for qualifying their suppliers through on-site audits, testing, and regular communications.
The bribery allegation indicates that Maiden Pharmaceuticals had foreknowledge that their cough syrup was tainted.
Miles made reference to "embalmed beef." Miles, a Civil War Union Army veteran, had many years of experience with army provisions.
Preparation Due to the pungent smell of the distilling process, Tharra is often prepared in remote fields, away from human settlements.
The first factory was established in the Volta Region, taking advantage of the area's supply of sugar cane plantations.
TOCP was originally thought to be non-toxic; however, it was later determined to be a neurotoxin that causes axonal damage to the nerve cells in the nervous system of mammals, especially those located in the spinal cord.
Investigation, arrests and court case On the Sunday morning the local police were informed of the deaths of a man named Elijah Wright and two boys, aged 9 and 14, the sons of John Scott; it was thought that the cause of the deaths was cholera.
The 2011 Turkish Riviera mass alcohol poisoning was an event that occurred on May 26–27, 2011, during a party on a yacht voyage of mostly female Russian tourists on the way from Bodrum to Antalya, southwestern Turkey.
On 9 January 2020, a police report indicated quantities of diethylene glycol in one brand of beer from the small upscale brewery Backer that could have poisoned 18 people in Belo Horizonte and other cities in Minas Gerais state.
At the time, concerns arose that the scandal would affect the beef-exporting industry, as the United States was the largest importer of Australian beef.
Cocaine is prohibited in competition for athletes by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), which lists it as a stimulant on its International Standard for the Prohibited List.
The eggs contained 4.7 ppm (part per million) of melamine, compared to the government imposed legal limit of 2.5 ppm for melamine in food.
2008 16 July: Gansu Province reports to the Ministry of Health that local hospitals had identified an increase in the incidence of kidney ailments among babies in the months earlier, and that most victims had consumed Sanlu's baby formula.
Adverse effects People who intravenously inject black tar heroin are at higher risk of venous sclerosis than those injecting powder heroin.
Alger from the Chicago "big three" meatpacking corporations, Morris & Co, Swift & Co, and Armour & Co.
Background Alcohol poisoning incidents are common in India, where poor people often cannot afford licensed liquor.
[was] apparently preserved by injected chemicals to aid deficient refrigeration," the medical officer wrote.
It is not clear whether the FDA checked samples of the same brands of food in which acetaminophen was allegedly found because the initial laboratory could not initiate contact with the FDA or publicly identify the manufacturer because of client confidentiality.
Most of the victims were foreign workers from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Nepal, as well as several Malaysians.
Background Deaths from illicit liquor are common in India, where illegally manufactured alcohol is often consumed for reasons including poverty and geographic isolation.
It is prepared by boiling barley grains or rice and some local herb known as Phab in water and then fermenting the material.
Before modern microbiology, foodborne illness was not understood, and, from the mid 1800s to early-mid 1900s, was perceived as ptomaine poisoning, caused by a fundamental flaw in understanding how it worked.
Until October, 45 people from the total of 98 cases have been reported dead by the Malaysian Health Ministry.
The scandal As a result, most of the meat arriving in Cuba was found to be so poorly preserved, chemically adulterated, or spoiled so that it was toxic and dangerous to consume.
The Tammany Hall politician Alderman Michael Tuomey, known as "Butcher Mike", defended the distillers vigorously throughout the scandal—in fact, he was put in charge of the Board of Health investigation.
In its natural state, nitrogen exists primarily as a gas (N2) in the atmosphere, making up about 78% of the air we breathe.
The four products were Promethazine Oral Solution, Kofexmalin Baby Cough Syrup, Makoff Baby Cough Syrup, and Magrip N Cold Syrup.
The original Xuzhou Anying wheat gluten was "human grade," as opposed to "feed grade," meaning that it could have been used to make food for humans such as bread or pasta.
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the first schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1958 (6 & 7 Eliz.
One month after the initial recall, contaminated rice protein from a different source in China was also identified as being associated with kidney failure in pets in the United States, while contaminated corn gluten was associated with kidney failure with pets in South Africa.
Laboratory grade is suitable for use in educational settings, but is not acceptable for food or drug use.
However, Clemenceau judged that the law must show strength and appealed to the army to restore order.
Planning In 1981, several thousand of Rajneesh's followers had moved onto the "Big Muddy Ranch" in rural Wasco County, Oregon, where they later incorporated as an intentional community called "Rajneeshpuram".
Black tar heroin's unique appearance and texture are due to its acetylation without the benefit of the usual reflux apparatus.
History Issue Chicken eggs were found to contain fipronil and distributed to 15 European Union countries, Switzerland, and Hong Kong.
The poisoning was precipitated by drinking counterfeit surrogate alcohol—actually scented bath lotion that was marked as not safe for consumption.
The two Australian victims, both 19 years old, initially fell ill on 13 November, after a night of drinking with a group of others.
United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, Arla is distributed by Volac, which also distributes Nestle, First Milk and Wilmar.
We found out that my nephew was poisoned by that drug through the results of medical examinations in Karshi.
Therefore, keeping cows stabled near distilleries and feeding them with swill was an economic advantage.
She added that even though she felt the alcohol tasted unusually strong, she did not realise anything.
Additional features can include cough, fever, fatigue, joint pain, edema, and numbness or tingling, usually in the limbs, hands and feet.
Some of the commonly used grades of purity include: ACS grade is the highest level of purity, and meets the standards set by the American Chemical Society (ACS).
After the negotiation and the agreement to move to avoid collective punishment, the mutineers of the 17th were assigned to Gafsa in Tunisia.
Outbreaks caused by infectious agents Outbreaks caused by chemical contamination See also List of epidemics List of food contamination incidents == References ==
In November 2024, six people died from suspected methanol poisoning at a bar in Vang Vieng, Laos, as a result of consuming contaminated alcohol.
You were carrying on your life normally while hoping to make yourself rich by threatening Tesco in this way while endangering the life of others in the process.".
2006 – China Wang Guiping discovered how easy it was to enter China's pharmaceutical supply business and earn extra money.
The Gambia cough syrup scandal refers to the deaths of 70 children in The Gambia from the consumption of four cough syrups manufactured in India.
"Arege mogo" which first originated in Lira district in northern Uganda made and sold all over the country .
The United States Army beef scandal was an American political scandal caused by the widespread distribution of extremely low-quality, heavily adulterated beef products to U.S Army soldiers fighting in the Spanish–American War.
It is engaged in processing and manufacturing of milk products, including ice cream, milk tea powder, sterilized milk and fresh milk under "Yili" brand, powdered milk under "Pro-Kido" brand, and organic milk under "Satine" brand.
Brown-brown, or brown cocaine, is a purported form of cocaine or amphetamine insufflation mixed with smokeless gunpowder.
Methamphetamine MSM is sometimes used as a cutting agent for illicitly manufactured methamphetamine.
Uses In many countries, sales of alcoholic beverages are heavily taxed for revenue and public health policy purposes (see Pigovian tax).
Video games In the video game Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty (2001), Raiden divulges his experience as a child soldier and references the use of brown-brown.
"The new standard requires Fonterra to purchase on segregated supply palm oil by 2018, and to work with suppliers of palm products to ensure that plans are in place for full traceability to plantation by 2018", said Fonterra's director of social responsibility, Carolyn Mortland.
Impact Tesco was forced to issue a product recall of 42,000 jars after the contaminated jars were found in Lockerbie and Rochdale.
A scandal involving 240 tons of gutter oil in Taiwan affecting hundreds of companies and thousands of restaurants, some of which may have been exported overseas, broke in September 2014.
According to legend, locals rushed in boats to save him or preserve his body from being eaten by the fish.
Since 2008, Chang Guann had imported 56 batches of lard oil weighing 2,385.1 tons from Hong Kong, about 300 tons of which were purchased from Globalway Corp between 2011 and 2014.
It is made from yeast fermentation of sugarcane, or wheat husk, especially in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana.
10 illegal liquor shops in the Diamond Harbour subdivision, one of the affected communities, were shut down by the police as well.
13 September: Production halted at Sanlu; nineteen people are arrested; Baidu denies ever agreeing to bury Sanlu negative news 15 September: Beijing confirms two babies dead.
Indian authorities, however, did not find any toxins but did identify labeling issues with Maiden Pharmaceuticals' cough syrup.
Food and Drug Administration was quoted as stating that at least 81 deaths were believed to be linked to a raw heparin ingredient imported from the People's Republic of China, and that they had also received 785 reports of serious injuries associated with the drug's use.
Weight cutting agents: Binding substances: Sometimes cannabis is adulterated with other binding substances including industrial glues such as neoprene, tar, ammonia, bitumen, petroleum-derived hydrocarbons, dog food or even human or animal excrement.
Cause According to police, the victims suffered methanol poisoning from methanol that had been added to the liquor to increase its potency.
References External links Guangdong Yashili Group Co Ltd Archived 2021-05-02 at the Wayback Machine Yashili International Holdings Ltd
Ltd teamed up with Arla Foods, the largest producer of dairy products in Scandinavia, to produce and distribute solid milk products in China, including Hong Kong and Macau.
Gray death is a slang term which refers to potent mixtures of synthetic opioids, for example benzimidazole opioids or fentanyl analogues, which were often sold on the street misleadingly as "heroin".
Harry Gross and his part-owner of Boston-Hub Products, Max Reisman, were ultimately fined $1,000 each and given a two-year suspended jail sentence.
He ate some of the sweets and by 5:30 pm he became ill; he went home and left his assistant to look after the stall until it closed at 11:30 pm, by which point about a thousand sweets had been sold.
Bangalore police arrested a kingpin of the illicit liquor network, but the prime supplier committed suicide.
Health risks Although practiced for many centuries, the drinking of realgar wine and the painting of children with realgar have come under scrutiny in modern times.
Tests revealed that they were horse meat, not beef, and further testing elsewhere in the United States revealed that some Australian "beef" contained kangaroo meat.
Halifax 1902 beer poisoning Such contamination was tied to an outbreak in the borough of Halifax in January and February 1902 where 13 to 14 cases of arsenic poisoning were noted, three deadly.
As of 1998, US Customs regulations on "country of origin" have stated that if a non-origin nation is shown on the label, then the real origin must be shown on the same side of the label and in comparable size letters so as not to mislead the consumer.
Around 30 people in connection with the distribution have been arrested despite little response and insufficient enforcement of the black market in the country from the authorities has attracted criticism.
Other studies have highlighted numerous major flaws in many of the epidemiological studies on the association of tryptophan with EMS, which cast serious doubt on the validity of their results.
See also Human subject research legislation in the United States List of medicine contamination incidents 1985 Austrian diethylene glycol wine scandal == References ==
Behzod Musayev, the minister of the health department of Republic of Uzbekistan, sent a video message of condolence to the parents and relatives of 18 children who died after taking the Dok-1 Max drug.
In the United States, the cookies are primarily found in Asian specialty stores and some Hispanic specialty stores.
Government actions The Tamil Nadu state drug control department cancelled all manufacturing licenses of Sresan Pharma.
It should no longer be issued." Miles also made public statements, reported in the newspapers, claiming that the canned meat was the after-product of the process for making beef extract.
The WHO has urged countries to enhance surveillance and offer support to countries lacking testing resources.
His successor, Yeh Ching-chuan, announced a return to the original zero-tolerance policy to melamine.
This means that 50% of street heroin in the UK in 1995 had worked its way from producer to user without being cut at any stage, although other adulterants may have been present.
Although the first case of a fatality from the related ethylene glycol occurred in 1930 and studies had been published in medical journals stating DEG could cause kidney damage or failure, its toxicity was not widely known prior to the incident.
Both sites were kept under 24-hour video surveillance for several months, but the killer did not surface.
This would have followed the Army's traditional practice of procuring fresh beef from local sources.
In 2005, AQSIQ established a sui generis system to cover the use of geographical indication products through the 2005 Provisions on the Protection of GI Products.
"Industry, government and enforcement agencies should, as a precautionary principle, always put the needs of consumers above all other considerations, and this means giving food safety and food crime prevention—i.e.
On 7 July 1981, about 300 people (Official figures 229) around the Tannery Road area died as a result of consuming this spurious alcohol.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also monitored hospitals and poison control centers during this period, and reported on 2 May 2007 that there had been no increase in reports of kidney disease.
Sales of Yashily branded infant formula increased by 27.3% while sales of the firm's Scient brand declined 0.8%.
While ya dong may legally be prescribed as a tincture by traditional medicine practitioners, in modern times, with legal restriction on alcohol production, it has become associated with illegal spirit production and is often described in English as moonshine.
At least 58 people died from consumption of tainted liquor and more than 200 people were admitted to hospitals.
According to Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), a minimum of 2,601 people died in Russia as a result of methanol poisoning between 2015 and 2025.
Incident On 18 May 2008, some people from the Bangalore Urban, Bangalore Rural and Kolar district in the state of Karnataka and neighbouring Krishnagiri district in the state of Tamil Nadu, consumed moonshine (illicit liquor) made with camphor and tobacco.
On 16 September, the AQSIQ tests on baby milk powder produced by 109 companies showed 69 batches from 22 companies to be melamine-contaminated; the State Council attempted to reassure that formula produced by most companies in China was safe.
An investigation found that most of the victims had bought a cheap liquor from hole in the wall stores in bid to evade the tax rates on Malaysian alcohols that range from 150–560%.
It is consumed in many district of Himachal Pradesh, such as kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba, Kullu and Kangra.
However, other substances such as cocaine have also been laced with opioids that resulted in illness and death.
The 2001 publication of Judith Miller's Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War, which contained an analysis and detailed description of the events, also brought discussion of the incident back into the news.
Since May 2018, methanol has been banned in the European Union for use in windscreen washing or defrosting due to the risk of human consumption.
Ehrlich reagent can only detect drugs with an indole moiety, but this is useful because drugs from the NBOMe class do not have an indole and are often sold as LSD which does.
Arak or araq (Arabic: عرق, Hebrew: ערק), is a distilled Levantine spirit of the anise drinks family.
The 2018 Malaysia methanol poisonings occurred in September 2018 in three states and two federal territories in Malaysia comprising Selangor (64 cases), Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya (18 cases), Perak (13 cases) and Negeri Sembilan (3 cases).
Maiden Pharmaceuticals produced the cough syrup in question, and it has been implicated in child deaths in Gambia.
History and etymology The substance first appeared in America and was thought to be a unique chemical compound before being identified as a mixture of drugs.
In June 2008, the company acquired the yoghurt and dairy dessert business of Nestlé Australia, which it on-sold to Parmalat Australia in December 2015.
The first four Unabomber crimes happened in Chicago and its suburbs from 1978 to 1980, and Kaczynski's parents had a suburban Chicago home in Lombard, Illinois, in 1982, where he stayed occasionally.
The official descriptions of the ACS levels of purity is documented in the Reagent Chemicals publication, issued by the ACS.
The crisis escalated in February 2013 when some Findus products were found to contain as much as 100% horsemeat instead of beef.
The "fridge test" for adulteration was evaluated by scientists at the Olive Center at the University of California, Davis.
charcoal), to interfere with color-based drug tests (mixing thiocyanates and iron salts or cobalt salts forms deep red complexes in solution), to make the mixture undetectable by drug sniffing dogs (activated carbon may sufficiently absorb trace odors).
In Israel During the age of austerity in the early years of the State of Israel, arak (in Hebrew, ערק) was locally made, with few imports.
In 2012, a study in India across 29 states and union territories found that milk was adulterated with detergent, fat, and even urea, and diluted with water.
Reagent testing is one of the processes used to identify substances contained within a pill, usually illicit substances.
Causes of this damage are associated with iodine, phosphorus and other toxic substances that are present after synthesis.
While at the time of the scare the company's market share collapsed from 35 percent to 8 percent, it rebounded in less than a year, a move credited to the company's prompt and aggressive reaction.
Research According to researchers, food adulteration has existed from historical times and is still prevalent.
Desi daru (Hindi: देसी दारू), also known as country liquor or Indian-made Indian liquor (IMIL), is a local category of liquor produced on the Indian subcontinent, as opposed to Indian-made foreign liquor.
Hooch is brewed from industrial alcohol, by separating methyl alcohol and adding water – a risky process which can leave traces of poisonous methyl alcohol.
Indian authorities started investigating an April 2023 allegation that a pharmaceutical regulator in Haryana state, who holds a senior position in the state health department, accepted a bribe and switched samples of contaminated cough syrup before the state government laboratory tested them.
These incidents are often – but not exclusively – associated with methanol poisoning of the victims, where toxic methyl alcohol is used as a cheap way, as compared to the proper use of ethanol, to increase the alcohol content of moonshine.
Several governments, including Australia, updated their travel advisories, warning citizens about the dangers of unregulated local alcohol in Southeast Asia.
Greenpeace campaign director Chris Harris said only 4 per cent of palm oil came from sustainable sites.
Shortly after that, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetaldehyde (C4H8O3) is metabolized by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) to the weak acid 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA), chemical formula C4H8O4.
From 2015, however, several upscale bars have developed their own versions, and the drink has also been introduced to the United States.
Twenty-two-year-old Viktoria Nikolaeva (Russian: Виктория Николаева), who was being treated in the intensive station of Akdeniz University's hospital in Antalya, died due to brain damage in the evening hours of June 20, 2011.
This included a surge of victims within a 72-hour period in January 2025, during which at least 30 people died.
While the medical establishment ditched ptomaine theory by the 1930s, it remained in the public consciousness until the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Similarly, a WHO investigation attributed dozens of child deaths in the Gambia to four Indian cough syrups contaminated with ethylene glycol or diethylene glycol.
This is a list of foodborne illness outbreaks by death toll, caused by infectious disease, heavy metals, chemical contamination, or from natural toxins, such as those found in poisonous mushrooms.
Pharmaceutical company Baxter International subcontracted the creation of precursor chemicals of heparin to Scientific Protein Laboratories, an American company with production facilities located in China.
Tharra (Hindi: ठर्रा, Urdu: ٹھرا) is a type of Desi daru which is locally, and often illegally, brewed alcoholic drink in the Indian subcontinent, mainly India and Pakistan.
The rise in bootleg alcohol production has been attributed to increased government taxes on legal alcoholic beverages.
Following the tragedy, the police conducted more than 8,000 raids in the state, booking 6,713 persons for violation of prohibition On 14 July, the police announced that Vinod Chauhan, the prime accused had managed to slip out of Gujarat.
It is usually made during the summer season, as the weather and environment help the fermentation process.
The L-tryptophan was produced by a bacterium grown in open vats in a Showa Denko fertilizer factory.
The WHO has since then tried to re-create the poisoning in laboratory animals with less-than-satisfactory results.
The 2008 Chinese milk scandal is among the few known events about the harm caused by the addition of melamine in milk.
For example, the presence of foreign elements may have important effects on the mechanical and magnetic properties of metal alloys.
Financial results For the six months ended 30 June 2012, Yashili group's revenue amounted to RMB1,689.1 million, a 17.0% increase compared to the same period of the preceding year.
In 2012 the UK's leading dairy farmer co-operative Milk Link joined Arla Foods Amba, to become one of the largest and most successful European Dairy Co-operatives.
Diagnosis of this illness is usually based on clinical findings and no single laboratory test is available.
In 2021, 860 kg (1,900 lb) of black cocaine disguised as charcoal, in 30 sacks among 1,364 sacks of charcoal, were seized in Spain, one of the biggest cocaine seizures recorded in Castilla y León.
The Gujarat alcohol poisonings occurred in July 2009 in Gujarat, resulting in the death of 136 people from consumption of bootleg liquor.
Results of the scandal Although there were no official findings of large-scale trouble with meat supplies, the newspapers stirred up public opinion on the subject.
Marihuana prensada or cannabis prensado (pressed cannabis or marijuana), also known as ladrillo (brick weed) or, colloquially, paragua or paraguayo is a compressed cannabis cut into blocks that facilitate transport.
Pure beryl will appear colorless but this rarely occurs and the presence of trace elements change its color.
Galician journalist and writer Fernando Rodríguez Méndez investigated this case for five years and published several books that have returned this story of money, poison and death to the present.
Mostly, the poisoning incidents have been reported from rural areas, where denatured spirit's use has proliferated due to illegal manufacturing facilities.
Use Although cannabis can be found in foods, beverages, cosmetics, etc., marihuana prensada is exclusively smoked in the form of a cigarette (joint).
Reported fipronil concentrations The maximum residue limit (MRL) of fipronil in eggs is set at the detection limit of 0.005 mg/kg within the European Union, as is outlined in Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2005.
Semiconductors that are p-doped contains a small amount of elements that have less valence electrons then the other elements in the crystal.
Clandestine and fraudulent production Clandestine liquor production is still prevalent, but it is seen more as a tradition than a business as it would be difficult to compete with the nationally produced guaro.
An invoice dated September 25, 1984, from the American Type Culture Collection of microbes was discovered, showing an order received by the Rajneeshpuram laboratory for Salmonella typhi, the bacterium that causes the life-threatening illness typhoid fever.
Department of Agriculture announced that the meat of 345 hogs that had eaten contaminated feed had entered the U.S.
International criticisms Since 1992, an average of around 1,000 people have died from drinking alcohol illegally, which has caused much international concern.
It also mentions in passing the product makes use of "NPN" which is an acronym for non-protein nitrogen.
The court of inquiry In the months following the 1898 Spanish–American War, during a court of inquiry held to investigate problems in the U.S.
Wu Heping, secretary general of the Heilongjiang Dairy Industry Association noted that between 75% and 90% of raw milk in some provinces had failed to reach the old protein level standard (in place since 1986) in 2007 and 2008.
The Czech government established a central emergency response council and banned the sale of liquors with more than 30% alcohol by volume at food stands on 12 September 2012.
Similar incidents A similar incident, the Pärnu methanol poisoning incident, occurred in Pärnu county, Estonia, in September 2001, when 68 people died and 43 were left disabled after contents of stolen methanol canisters were used in production of bootleg liquor.
Since yellow fever frequently causes symptoms similar to bacterial food poisoning (fever, vomiting, severe or bloody diarrhea), little connection was made at the time between illness and consumption of the Chicago beef.
Alger Francis Buzzacott, army scout and writer who testified in support of Miles Further reading Laurie Winn Carlson, Cattle: An Informal Social History, Ivan R.
Most of those who died were economically and socially backward Dalits from Kallakurichi, and nearby villages.
The colonial government had banned the sale of local liquor (Pelele) and so the women carrying milk also carried Pelele disguised as milk.
Background In April 2016, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar enacted legislation banning the sale and consumption of alcohol in the Bihar.
In December 2023, Yili Group established an internal militia unit reporting to the People's Liberation Army within the company.
Zone refining, another purification method, is an economically important method for the purification of semiconductors.
Since over-sulfated chondroitin is not a naturally occurring molecule, costs a fraction of true heparin starting material, and mimics the in-vitro properties of heparin, the counterfeit was almost certainly intentional as opposed to an accidental lapse in manufacturing.
Local economy It is often consumed by poor or landless tillers, typically distilled with the connivance of officials and police officers, generating large profits.
The drinks contained methanol, a toxic chemical that, when ingested, can lead to blindness or death from nervous system paralysis.
This approach is intended to accommodate the use of geographical indications in handicrafts like embroidery or ceramics.
It is consumed on festive occasions, religious festivals and other social gatherings.Jhol یا Jhol (هندی: Jhol) یک نوشیدنی الکلی است که در ایالت هیماچال پرادش در شمال هند تولید می شود .
In the United States and other countries, the use of denatured alcohol unsuitable for beverages avoids excise taxes on alcohol.
Cases of mass methanol poisoning have occurred in Thailand from the production and distribution of ya dong.
Arrests By 22 June 2015, seven people had been arrested, and eight police officers were suspended for negligence, in connection with the incident.
Reactions After the incident, there had been demands for repealing the prohibition of alcohol in the state.
The water used to make the drink in illegal breweries is also often below acceptable health standards and sometimes contaminated with sewage.
Health concerns The brew is often doctored in unsafe and poisonous ways, and its regular abuse frequently has resulted in alcohol poisoning related hospitalizations, blindness, and death.
In the month of May there were large gatherings in the prefectures and sub-prefectures of Languedoc-Roussillon.
The term desi daru usually refers to legal alcohol while other types of country liquor (arrack and palm toddy) may be categorised as moonshine alcohol.
Considering this is a grape-growing country, the reader will be astonished to learn that little wine is comparatively made in it, and of that little, not much is used by the natives, for here let me tell the reader that the Syrians are by no means partial to liquors of any kind.
The accused was convicted in the lower court and upon appeal, Odisha High Court confirmed the life sentence awarded to Belu alias Surendra Das, the prime accused in the 1992 Cuttack hooch tragedy.
Writing systems When a constructed language has multiple writing systems, the following BCP 47 tags can be used to differentiate between them.
Matija Majar, also spelled Majer (7 February 1809 – 31 July 1892), pseudonym Ziljski, was a Carinthian Slovene Roman Catholic priest and political activist, best known as the creator of the idea of a United Slovenia.
In the 2007 animated film Ratatouille, the character chef Auguste Gusteau's first name and last name are verlans of each other.
Blissymbols differ from most of the world's major writing systems in that the characters do not correspond at all to the sounds of any spoken language.
28 October] 1885 – 28 June 1922), was a Russian poet and playwright, a central part of the Russian Futurist movement, but his work and influence stretch far beyond it.
In this vein, Parkinson wrote: Leibniz's views about the systematic character of all knowledge are linked with his plans for a universal symbolism, a Characteristica Universalis.
History According to Tobias Churton in his text The Golden Builders, the concept of an Angelic or antediluvian language was common during Dee's time.
Some common clusters are: Vowel Absence The absence of vowel phonemes in consonant clusters or after word-end consonants is marked by the absence of vowel letters.
Schleyer himself never agreed with this essential limitation of his copyright, and when Kerckhoffs offered to block reform of Volapük, Schleyer dismissed in its entirety the whole Academy.
Lidia, in particular, took a keen interest in Esperanto, and as an adult became a teacher of the language, travelling through Europe and to America to teach classes in it.
When the mountains are hit by a thunderstorm, Dominic rushes to her rescue and finds Veronica chanting in Sanskrit.
In 2016, he was awarded the Neil and Saras Smith Medal for Linguistics by the British Academy "for his outstanding lifetime contribution to the field of linguistics".
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
The language is used for the second time in song in Enya's 2015 album Dark Sky Island, on two tracks which follow the 'intergalactic' theme of the title - "The Forge of The Angels" and "The Loxian Gates".
The characteristic has also been claimed as an ancestor of the pictographic Energy Systems Language and associated Emergy Synthesis of Odum's Systems Ecology (Cevolatti and Maud, 2004).
La ricerca della lingua perfetta nella cultura europea (The Search for the Perfect Language (the Making of Europe); trans.
A palatalized consonant is marked with a hacek, a nasalized vowel with a tilde: ã (among other things, nasalization marks the accusative case; a long vowel by a circumflex: â If stress is not marked, it falls on the last non-schwa vowel preceding the last consonant of the word.
Structures of this sort may with some adroitness be made to stand; but their equilibrium is unstable, and sooner or later they will inevitably tumble over.
For example, words beginning with 'sol', which include no repeating syllables, have meanings related to arts or sciences (e.g.
Based in Amsterdam, Netherlands, its main functions are the propagation of the language, arranging the yearly conferences in which Ido speakers gather, and the publishing of the magazine Progreso (Progress), begun in 1908 by Louis Couturat, one of the founders of the movement who died in 1914.
As a historian, Baumann published work on the history of Bavaria and Bavarian culture, publishing a book Bavarian trade in the 18th Century, especially under Elector Maximilian III Joseph: Cultural-historical Studies from Archive Sources (German: Das bayerische Handelswesen im 18.
Background "Sanomi" was written in an imaginary language by Yves Barbieux, a member of the Belgian folk music band Urban Trad, of which he was a part along with Verónica Codesal, Marie-Sophie Talbot, Didier Laloy, Dirk Naessens, Cédric Waterschoot, Soetkin Collier, Philip Masure, and Michel Morvan.
In 2010, back slang was reported to have been adopted for the sake of privacy on foreign tennis courts by the young English players Laura Robson and Heather Watson.
"Centre de documentation et d'étude sur la langue internationale (CDELI)" [Esperanto Studies] (in Esperanto and French).
He (as he/she then is) is caged in "The Mask Factory", and his captors fear him much more than any of their other creations.
BCI is an international group of people who act as an authority regarding the standardization of the Blissymbolics language.
Early life Childhood Claude Vivier is believed to have been born on 14 April 1948 in the vicinity of Montréal, Québec, and was voluntarily placed in the orphanage of La Crèche Saint-Michel (no longer in operation) that same day by his mother.
When Dawn tries to pay for the lesson, Don stops her and reveals his intention: to con people out of their money by teaching them a fraudulent language.
Dalgarno was also interested in constructing what he called a 'philosophical language', now more usually referred to as universal language.
In an interview, Sotomayor stated that she aimed for Kēlen to be naturalistic apart from its verblessness, and that to achieve this she employs the principle "change one thing and keep everything else the same".
In addition to the above eight official members, Ralph Midgley, former governor (guvan) of Volapük, was also on the board of the Academy as a deputy prior to his death in 2024.
Languages of Almea described on the website include: Most words in those languages have etymologies, being derived from proto-languages (like Proto-Eastern above) by means of sound changes, and are given historical backgrounds, resulting in the presence of loan-words.
Higley in her book Hildegard of Bingen's Unknown Language: An edition, translation and discussion (Palgrave Macmillan 2007), The New Middle Ages ISBN 1-4039-7673-2, ISBN 978-1-4039-7673-4) where she discusses Lingua Ignota in the context of constructed languages up to the present day.
References Further reading "Provisional notes on cataloging in the A-ka-u-ku (Bamum) script, in the Shümom and Bamum languages | Yale University Library".
She has also written numerous short stories, about equally divided between fantasy and science fiction, which have appeared in various anthologies and collections over the last twenty years.
References External links Proposal for Encoding the Mwangwego Script, Unicode Article on designing a font for the script, Endangered Alphabets
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
To a far lesser, though still significant extent, Sorang Sompeng is learned, taught, read, and written for secular educational and literary purposes in Sora communities, primarily in the Indian states of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.
The features were based on 40 tokens of misunderstanding between speakers from Japan and Switzerland, and were intended as subject to further empirical testing and fine-tuning.
It has a small number of phonemes, so that regional "accents" are less likely to produce unintelligible speech.
meni "meni bibel" my books) tu (you, singular), te (you, singular/object), ten (your(s) singular; pl.
Sananmuunnos ("Word transformation"), sometimes kääntösana, is a sort of verbal play in the Finnish language, similar to spoonerisms in English.
Hupé suggests that synaesthetic colour experience lies not in the brain's colour system, but instead results from "a complex construction of meaning in the brain, involving not only perception, but language, memory and emotion".
This is similar to the traditional Chinese practice of representing sounds by two characters known as fanqie.
He was commissioned into the Royal Army Service Corps and was selected for the Airborne Company, where he worked as a brigade liaison.
The first drafts were published online in 2001, while the complete form was published in the 2014 book Toki Pona: The Language of Good (referred to as lipu pu in Toki Pona).
In 2011, Phillips launched the BiteyCastle Effects Academy (BCA FX), a subscription-based series of video tutorials teaching how to do 2D animated visual effects.
The circumstances of what exactly happened that night and early the following morning are still a matter of speculation, but Dolzan would later say that he accepted Vivier's invitation with the intention of robbing and killing him.
Then each of the fore-parents goes forth and brings back another ler of the appropriate gender, the "after-parents".
This effort brought him into contact with members of the Oxford Philosophical Club, one of the precursors of the Royal Society.
The untranslated texts of the Liber Loagaeth manuscript recall the patterns of glossolalia rather than true language.
Background and release "Heaven" was written by Andreas Schuller, Leroy Clampitt, Sebastian Barac, Marcel Botezan, Laila Samulesen, Trey Campbell and Theea Eliza Miculescu, while production was handled by Barac and Botezan.
Near the end of his life, Leibniz wrote that combining metaphysics with mathematics and science through a universal character would require creating what he called: ...
It uses 24 of the 26 letters of the ISO basic Latin alphabet, "w" and "y" are not used, and has three additional letters "œ", "ü" and "σ" which comes from the Greek alphabet.
For his US book tour, Tammet appeared on several television and radio talk shows and specials, including 60 Minutes and the Late Show with David Letterman.
Translation "Visiting by chance the 2nd World Congress of Esperanto in Geneva (in 1906), I became an Esperantist and took part there in the founding of the International Scientific Esperantist Association, of which I was elected secretary.
BSO failed to attract investment for a further development phase after 1990, and DLT was abandoned unfinished.
Jacobs and Hergé became close collaborators and greatly influenced each other, while together they developed the plot for the next Adventure of Tintin, The Seven Crystal Balls, which began serialisation in Le Soir in December 1943.
Dum mia laboro por la reformo de Esperanto mi ekzamenis ne nur la projekton Ido, sed ankaŭ la interlingvojn el la skolo "naturalisma" (Occidental, Latino sine flexione, ktp.).
Union for the International Language Ido (Ido: Uniono por la Linguo Internaciona Ido, ULI) is the official union of the Ido-language movement from 1910.
Esperanto II was one of several languages investigated by the International Auxiliary Language Association, the linguistic research body that eventually standardized and presented Interlingua de IALA.
Proposed subdivisions Historically, the term "North Slav" has been used in academia since at least the first half of the 19th century.
This is the variant most used in Brazilian Portuguese, while the others are more common in European Portuguese.
Additionally, Change involves a forced decrease in age of 10 to 20 years, limiting the number of Changes possible in a short period of time.
Appropriately, the very term sananmuunnos is one; it becomes munansaannos, which can be understood as "receiving/providing of sex".
Personal life Overview Vivier was best known among his friends and acquaintances for his extroverted personality, effeminate mannerisms, and distinctive laugh, described by some as being similar to the cackle of a hyena; or, "very loud and a bit creepy".
Yuantang is a subdialect spoken by Hakka speakers at Yuantang (Chinese: 苑塘), a village in southern China.
She vigorously denied the claims, and after an investigation later that year it was concluded that the accusations were exaggerated and based on outdated information.
for the West Slavic and East Slavic languages considered as a combined unit, particularly when contrasted to South Slavic languages.
It was designed to be an intuitive language: Karky said he used hard consonants and soft consonants depending on the nature of the words' meanings.
Background and history In its concultural setting, Kēlen is spoken by an alien species called the Kēleñi, for whom the language was created.
Pasigraphies are purely written languages without a spoken form, or with a spoken form left at the discretion of the reader; many of the 17th–18th century philosophical languages and auxlangs were pasigraphies.
Emphasizing that the quest for a perfect language has never been devoid of ideological motivation, Eco outlines some objections to the idea and suggests that an International Auxiliary Language, such as Esperanto, is a more realistic project.
“English as a global language – What do future teachers have to say?” In *Gnutzmann, Claus; Intemann, Frauke (eds.).
The term "Enochian" comes from Dee's assertion that the Biblical patriarch Enoch had been the last human (before Dee and Kelley) to know the language.
English has Pig Latin, with a similar morphological construction, moving the first consonant to the end of the word and following in with the suffix -ay.
This progresses to multiplication, division, variables, and constants, then propositional logic, set theory, and first-order logic.
The use of Lapine words is often (although not exclusively) used to indicate concepts unique to rabbits, such as silflay (aboveground grazing) or tharn (freezing behavior).
Léopold Leau (1868-1943) was a French mathematician, primarily known for his ties to international auxiliary languages.
As with Leibniz's calculus ratiocinator two different schools of philosophical thought have come to emphasise two different aspects that can be found in Leibniz's writing.
Books in this series so far are: The Levin-Gad (2018) The Landlady (2019) The Librarian (TBA) Star Trek Duane has also written a number of Star Trek novels: Original Series The Wounded Sky.
Gibson of the United States Army Coastal Artillery, which replaces words with numbers using the digits 0-9.
Lingua Franca Nova Boeree was also the inventor of the auxiliary language Lingua Franca Nova (ISO 639-3: lfn), which first appeared in 1998 on the Internet.
The Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language was founded on 7 January 1901 on Leau's initiative.
Some verlan words, which are now well incorporated in common French language, have taken on their own significance, or at least certain connotations that have changed their meaning.
The Zompist Bulletin Board The website has a corresponding bulletin board, formerly hosted with SpinnWebe but now with its own domain at www.verduria.org.
In 1921, he was able to travel to Persia; excited at his arrival, he wrote poems chronicling exciting events and the sights around him.
Esperanto has become "the most outlandishly successful invented language ever" and the most widely spoken constructed international auxiliary language.
ESF also sponsored the creation of the documentary film The Universal Language, and produced the video course Esperanto—Pasporto al la Tuta Mondo (available on YouTube).
Symbols representing a single adjective may be written inside or above the symbol for the preceding word that they modify.
The Pali alphabet, including the Ariyaka script, consists of 41 letters: 6 vowels 2 diphthongs 32 consonants 1 accessory nasal sound (niggahīta) Consonants are further classified into 25 mutes, 6 semivowels, 1 sibilant, and 1 aspirant, with vowels divided into long and short forms.
Other variations send the text through several languages before translating it back into the original or continue translating the text back and forth until it reaches equilibrium (i.e., the result of the back translation is identical to the text used for the forward translation).
Works on psychology Boeree was the author of the first online psychology texts, which he made available at no cost to students and other interested parties starting in 1997.
Modern statistic-based and context-based translation programs are able to produce a better translation.
By advocating a constructed international language, constructed along logical principles and with a vocabulary taken from existing European languages, Couturat was paralleling Peano's advocacy of Interlingua.
Such an origin is credited to two children — Ed "Squirrel" Clement and Lank McGimsey — who started making up words in the summer of 1890.
Names Names are written by enclosing multiple characters in a cartouche shaped like a rounded rectangle.
This promising hypothesis came to nothing because the system was too vulnerable to wind and weather.
Podaná (Greek: ποδανά) is a Greek argot based on rearranging syllables, similar to Verlan and Vesre.
As noted by Boleslas Gajewski: "one should take great care to pause after every word; this slight pause is necessary to separate the words, so that the listener does not become confused".
The fictional language Kiliki (also referred to as Kilikili) spoken by the Kalakeyas, a ferocious warrior tribe, was created by Madhan Karky for the film.
ELF and GEs, describing what people actually do when communicating [simple or not]; and "World Englishes", generally accounting for language features and commonalities by region/group, vs.
Prepositions, conjunctions and interjections are also formed from noun roots by appending appropriate suffixes.
In the year 1976 Weferling even published his autobiography Ek le vive de un oldi interlinguistiker (From the life of an old Interlinguist) in Intal.
sanan muunnos [sa-nan mu-ːnnos] → [mu-nan sa-ːnnos] → munan saannos If necessary, stilted diphthongs are converted into allowed diphthongs as per phonotactics.
Others Breckon, Colin Joseph, "Symbolism as a Written Language", pp.74–83 in Breckon, C.J., Graphic Symbolism, McGraw-Hill, Sydney), 1975.
Vocabulary Example words Numbers Numbers with values in both tens and ones are formed by combining ones number with tens number, and joining them with affix -un-.
Rosario has its "Rosarigasino" method for obfuscating words, and Córdoba has an entirely different set of colloquial conventions.
Martin's description of the language, as well as from such languages as Estonian, Inuktitut, Turkish, Russian, and Swahili.
𞓕 (/a/) + ◌𞓬 → 𞓕𞓬 (/ã/) Example 1: Mundari: 𞓝𞓟𞓕𞓬, IPA: /t̪uãː/ , Translation: Milk/Breast Example 2: Mundari: 𞓧𞓟𞓬 , IPA: /mũː/ , Translation: Nose Vowels preceding or following nasal phonemes like /ŋ/, /ɲ/, /ṇ/, /ɳ/ and /m/ are also nasalised.
Other languages Other languages have similar coded forms but reversing the order of syllables rather than phonemes.
McIntyre) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine (1988–2000) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Worlds (1998) Spells of Wonder (1989) Sword and Sorceress series (1984–2013) (edited by Marion Zimmer Bradley, after her death by Elisabeth Waters and Diana L.
Because the resulting text can often differ substantially from the original, RTT can also be a source of entertainment.
Background Although Zamenhof's stated preference was to avoid any discussion of changes, he was put under considerable pressure, including financial, to respond to the diverse reforms proposed by others.
This set historically tends to overlap with taxonomic languages, though there is no inherent reason a pasigraphy needs to be taxonomic.
Mute English in South Korea From elementary school to high school, South Korean students spend about 730 hours on English classes at school alongside private tutoring and cram schools, online English classes and even going abroad to improve their English.
Publishing history Long poems 1910: “Snake Train” 1913: Prologue to the Futurist opera Victory over the Sun Plays 1912: The Little Devil Books 1912: Teacher and Student.
This was on the basis that the victorious powers of the war would better favour Bavaria in a new union state, rather than in a Prussian-dominated Germany.
The family was forced to flee to Vienna after the Imperial Russian Army occupied Czernowitz in 1916.
Zamenhof initially called his language "Lingvo internacia" (international language), but those who learned it began to call it Esperanto after his pseudonym, and this soon became the official name for the language.
was calling himself the Budetlyanin (a Russian pun, meaning 'a Future Living Being'), not a Futurist, and not accidentally that term was not held' ('...не случайно...
He is best known for his ideas surrounding Bavarian separatism, and for his series of Universal German languages, Wede.
He moved with his parents and brother to the United States in 1956 and grew up on Long Island, New York.
Life and career After doing his national service in the navy for two years, studying Russian as a coder (special), and commissioned as a midshipman, he returned to Cambridge as a PhD student in 1956.
It has been translated into Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, and German by fans, and came out in book form in March 2010.
Once Gary Gygax's attention had been drawn to Barker's work, it was decided that TSR would publish a revised version of the game mechanics along with a condensed version of his campaign setting.
The IANA Language Subtag Registry (for IETF's language tags defined in BCP 47) was updated on 29 July 2009 to include all ISO 639-3 and ISO 639-5 identifiers in use at that time.
Jean-François Sudre, also written Sudré (15 August 1787 – 3 October 1862), was a violinist, composer and music teacher who invented a musical language called la Langue musicale universelle or Solrésol.
For example, the city of Udine is called Udin in Friulian, the town of Tolmezzo is called Tumieç, the town of Aviano is called both Avian and Pleif.
Distributed Language Translation (Esperanto: Distribuita Lingvo-Tradukado, DLT) was a project to develop an interlingual machine translation system for twelve European languages.
The author concluded that RTT was a poor method of predicting the quality of machine translation software.
Latin and Greek (or Koine Greek) were the intermediary language of all areas of the Mediterranean; Akkadian, and then Aramaic, remained the common languages of a large part of Western Asia through several earlier empires.
N’Ko literacy was thus instrumental in shaping Maninka cultural identity in Guinea, and strengthened Manding identity in wider West Africa.
In April 2004, the basic version of the plan was announced as service streamed over the internet, that would broadcast a four-hour block in order to reach out to a wide international audience.
Rest and recuperation Orwell returned to England in June 1937, and stayed at the O'Shaughnessy home at Greenwich.
Leau studied at the École normal supérieure in Paris and received his doctorate there in April 1897.
She is best known for being the creator of Encantadia in 2005 and the succeeding related television series including the Encantadia 2016 reboot.
List of notable pidgins Many of these languages are commonly referred to by their speakers as "Pidgin".
Famous Grammelot also include Charlie Chaplin's faux-German in The Great Dictator and Monty Python's Knights Who Say Ni.
He was initially educated at St Ann's RC School, Stretford, before he won a scholarship to St Bede's College, Manchester, joining in September 1943.
The contemporary project for a politically and culturally unified Europe provides the perspective for a more serious consideration of the theme.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
International Sign, though a pidgin language, is present at most significant international gatherings, from which interpretations of national sign languages are given, such as in LSF, ASL, BSL, Libras, or Auslan.
He has continued to do outside work as a freelance animator, writer and special effects designer for clients such as Kellogg's, BioWare San Francisco and Wizards of the Coast (Dungeons and Dragons).
Peano's language was sometimes called Interlingua, not to be confused with the better-known Interlingua presented in 1951 by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA).
As the Living Tongues Institute for Endangered languages tells us – roughly every two weeks a language dies”.
The Talossan language, also created by Madison in 1980, claims a vocabulary of 35 000 root words and 121 000 derived words – including fieschada ([fjeˈʃaðə]), meaning "love at first sight".
tai or ta, and similarly with formal vi, av(i), va(i); li "s/he", ali or al "he" and the masculine prefix, lai or la "she" and the feminine prefix, etc.
It has a phonology based on elementary melodic distinctions, and a simple lexicon and grammar inspired by pidgins.
Wikipedia There is also a Nko version of Wikipedia in existence since 26 November 2019, it contains 1,588 articles, with 12,799 edits and 5,831 users.
He was often considered to be not only one of the greatest science fiction authors, but one of the best American writers regardless of genre.
It was used mainly by market sellers, such as butchers and greengrocers, for private conversations behind their customers' backs and to pass off lower-quality goods to less-observant customers.
The Zompist Bulletin Board (often abbreviated ZBB) is an online forum created for the purpose of discussing conlangs, conworlds, and Mark Rosenfelder's own constructed world, Almea.
The Lingua Franca Core (LFC) is a selection of pronunciation features of the English language recommended as a basis in teaching of English as a lingua franca.
This led to schism, with much of the Academy abandoning Schleyer's Volapük in favor of Idiom Neutral and other new constructed language projects.
Khlebnikov died while a guest in the house of his friend Pyotr Miturich near Kresttsy, in June 1922.
Brown intended Loglan to be as culturally neutral as possible and metaphysically parsimonious, which means that obligatory categories are kept to a minimum.
In 1893, he was relocated to Bonthain (now Bantaeng in South Sulawesi); in 1896, to Padang and also to Aceh; in 1898, to Sintang, where he married for the second time, to Elise Marie Wilhelmine Gerardine Chavannes.
Furthermore, students in China are more used to a prescriptivist approach to their education and as a result may not be too receptive to the teaching methodology of native English speakers in explaining rules.
In his dissertation, Leau examined, among other things, the iteration behavior of holomorphic functions in the environment of a rationally indifferent fixed point.
The English grammar may hide the fact that the "beautiful" adjective translates the concept of "enjoying", a true verb, so a simpler Kalaba-X sentence would be better "Enjoy a lot, picture this, me." But the analysis does not stop there, because Kalaba-X features no pronouns, i.e.
Unamunda Unamunda itself is based on words in the English language, as well as German, Russian, and the Romance languages.
During his trial, he persisted in using Miller's language in his documents and oral arguments, despite being repeatedly ordered by the court to communicate in a comprehensible fashion.
Schleyer first published a sketch of Volapük in May 1879 in Sionsharfe, a Catholic poetry magazine of which he was editor.
However, French words that end in a ⟨e⟩ muet (such as femme [fam]) and words that end in a pronounced consonant (such as flic [flik]) gain the sound [œ] once reversed.
c is pronounced /ʃ/ (like English sh), g always hard (as in German), j as in French, and y and z as in English.
These first five systems are closely related: All were progressively simplified pictographic protowriting with logographic elements.
Under Israeli law, the organization that officially directs the development of Modern Hebrew is the Academy of the Hebrew Language, headquartered at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
As Finnish is a mora-divided language, it is morae that are exchanged, not syllables (often a mora is also a syllable in a Finnish word, but not always).
External links Desatir, or, Sacred writings of the ancient Persian prophets : in the original tongue ...
Nineteen days later, Arie reached the city of Batavia alone, and on the 25th, he decided to depart to his workshop in Makassar.
For example, names of people and places are used as modifiers of the common word for "person" and "place", e.g.
Língua dos Pês (Portuguese, P Language) is a language game spoken in Brazil and Portugal with Portuguese.
He also developed a strong interest in linguistics and historical literature, studying the mechanics of ancient Greek and Latin, which would later prove influential for his langue inventées.
Mwangwego continues to hold public lectures and exhibitions in academic institutions and teach the script.
It is most commonly employed in situations such as trade, or where both groups speak languages different from the language of the country in which they reside (but where there is no common language between the groups).
is a 'peer-reviewed international and multilingual journal devoted to the study of multilingualism and language policy', which has regularly items on Interlinguistics, like "Table of contents".
In addition, verlan often drops the final vowel sound after the word is inverted, so femme and flic become meuf ([mœf] – meufa in full form) and keuf ([kœf] – keufli in full form), respectively.
Development and dissemination The idea for a Malawian script came on November 10, 1977, in Paris, when Mwangwego discovered that there are various writing systems in the world, and thought that words meaning "to write" in Malawian languages were evidence that they once had a script of their own.
Some cultural critics praised the play, while others said (such as Sergey Yutkevich, who would later become a well-known Soviet screenwriter) it was very badly staged.
For example, the word darba (strike), of Arabic origin, is close to Russian "удар" (udar; strike), Chinese "打" (dǎ; to strike), and even marginally to English "strike" and Hindi "प्रहार" (prāhar).
These languages were created for chauvinistic purposes, specifically for the aim of implementing German as a lingua franca in post-World War One Europe.
The macron is a 'killer stroke' that deletes the vowel from a syllable and so forms consonants and NC clusters (/nd, ŋɡ/) that can be used for syllable codas.
Thus for Jespersen, progress towards communicative efficiency is anyway inevitable, but can also be assisted by language engineering.
An omnibus of the first four Rihannsu novels, containing minor tweaks for consistency and re-editing Swordhunt and Honor Blade into the originally-intended single novel.
A joint committee of the House of Lords and House of Commons considered the petition, and rejected it in 1935.
Comprising the council is a mayor and 13 elected members, who are supported by a chief executive, as well as four general managers and approximately 175 field and inside staff.
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 95 votes to 91, with Liberal Party member John Gorton absent.
He was given the additional command responsibilities of the 12th Division and the Northern Territory Lines of Communications Area in December.
In 2018, the SA state government reduced the levy by an average of $150 per household, costing approximately $360 million.
Military commission On 24 July 1804 he was commissioned into the army as an ensign in the 64th Regiment of Foot, which was at that time stationed in the West Indies.
It was created by the Legislation Act 2003 incorporating the functions and responsibilities of the now-defunct ComLaw and Federal Register of Legislative Instruments.
But the Commonwealth government directly nominating and recommending a Governor-General occasioned a controversy, both in the press at home and in Buckingham Palace.
This list of Australian Government entities includes ministerial departments, principal entities, secondary entities, and other entities, which are grouped into a number of areas of portfolio responsibility.
It was the first time anyone had ever been called to the Bar of the lower house, and it was the only time the Parliament has ever jailed anyone.
The next day the Australians of 3 RAR took the lead in the advance, and C Company was the leading company.
In May 1879, she became a great-grandmother (on the birth of Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen) and passed her "poor old 60th birthday".
Following a derailment event in December 2011, Oz Minerals elected to use the line to export to the south via Port Adelaide.
History The title refers to Sir Rupert Cross, who originally wrote the textbook in the United Kingdom in 1958.
The Royalist view interpreted the phrase as "King, in Parliament"; that is, the King acting with the consent of the Lords and Commons, but ultimately exercising his own sovereign authority.
History Under the Additional Members Act 1864, the seats of Clermont, Kennedy, Maryborough, Mitchell, Rockhampton and Warrego were created.
Anticipating a US withdrawal, the McMahon government announced an 'accelerated withdrawal' of Australian troops in Vietnam in July 1971.
In 2010, the APLC together with the states identified the potential for a significant infestation of the Australian plague locust.
Louis John Wienholt (1918–1973) was a senior Australian public servant, including as Secretary of the Department of Social Security in 1973.
Policy-making functions of the Commission were assumed by the Queensland Department of Energy and Water Supply and its planning and regulatory functions became the responsibility of Seqwater.
She has been a Labor member of the Western Australian Legislative Assembly since the 2021 state election, representing Mirrabooka from 2021 to 2025 and Girrawheen from 2025.
Another similar portrait of Philip by Dargie, which has been described as "a draft or copy of the City of Melbourne portrait", is part of the collection of Melbourne Legacy, a charitable organisation whose collection is part of the broader Victorian Collections.
Opponents of the move to make Australia a republic claim in response that Australia already has an Australian as head of state in the governor-general, who, since 1965, has invariably been an Australian citizen.
The Department of Family and Community Services (also known as FaCS) was an Australian government department that existed between October 1998 and January 2006.
McVeigh resigned after he was preselected as the LNP candidate for the federal division of Groom at the 2016 federal election.
He says that extremists misinterpret Islamic teachings such as the Quranic injunction, 'whoever kills an innocent person, it's as if he has killed all of mankind'.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, the Department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
The agency was responsible for setting water restriction policy and coordinating water infrastructure projects in the state.
From 1 July 2025, the corporation achieved the milestone of being powered by 100% renewable electricity and is on track to report net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the 2025-26 financial year, four years ahead of its government obligations.
On refusing Privatisation and Administrative Affairs she says that she was not willing to put up with a junior portfolio of "limited interest." This portfolio now renamed Privatisation and Administrative Services went instead to David Connolly.
The Taronga Conservation Society is a Government of New South Wales agency responsible for Taronga Zoo Sydney and the Taronga Western Plains Zoo in New South Wales, Australia.
It replaced the Department of National Development and inherited domestic resources and energy matters from the Department of Trade and Resources.
The seat of the consulate-general is located on Level 3 of ESA Sampoerna Center, Sukolilo, Surabaya, East Java.
On 28 September 2010, Wyatt attended the opening of the 43rd Australian Parliament to take up his seat as member for Hasluck.
He was further honoured with appointment as a Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order in January 2014, for his services as Deputy Official Secretary to the Governor-General of Australia since 2009.
Arthur Herbert Evelyn Mattingley (1870–1950), noted Australian bird photographer and ornithologist, was a founding member of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union (RAOU) in 1901.
Upon arrival in Melbourne after the cessation of hostilities he was discharged from the Australian Imperial Force on 28 October 1919.
Defence minister Malcolm Fraser developed an uneasy relationship with Gorton and in early 1971, Fraser accused Gorton of being disloyal to him in a conflict with Army officials over progress in South Vietnam.
In 1822, Governor Macquarie returned from Australia and, after securing seven weeks' leave from his returned regiment, Watts went to visit the Macquaries, meeting them in Glasgow on 2 September 1822.
Awards Hayes was made an Officer of the Order of Australia in June 1992 for service to international organisations, and for his public service.
On 4 February 2004 the first passenger train arrived in Darwin from Adelaide, travelling 2979 km (1851 mi) in 47 hours.
See also Robodebt scheme List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Department of Social Services website
His next role was as Secretary of the Department of Industry, Tourism and Resources (later Department of Innovation, Industry, Science and Research), to which he was appointed by Prime Minister John Howard, who praised his knowledge and experience.
To South Korea Following the Korean War, South Korea was welcomed under the US "nuclear umbrella" after signing the ROK-US mutual security treaty on October 1, 1953.
For example, there was a specialist accreditation exam for Immigration law in 2018, you'll be expecting the next exam in 2020.
He was transferred to the 5th Divisional Signal Company in February 1917 and was promoted to lieutenant in April.
Life and career Hayes was appointed to the position of Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs starting in March 1982.
When the Australian Customs Service was established in 1985, splitting out from the Department of Industry, Technology and Commerce, Hayes was appointed its Comptroller-General.
These included the hours of sittings, a 20-minute limit on speeches, and a requirement that there be at least 4 hours of debate (or 12 speakers) before debate on any bill could be ended.
During his time as head of social security, Wienholt organized for his desk clerks to attend two-week courses in the slums of Melbourne and Sydney to "sensitise" them to the problems of departmental clients.
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was an Australian government department that existed between May 1982 and July 1987.
History Prior to July 2015, Norfolk Island was self-governed by the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly.
Structure The Department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence Production.
History In 1935 Para Wirra amalgamated with the District Council of Talunga to form the new and District Council of Gumeracha.
The announcement coincided with the revelation that the ADF was tracking a People's Liberation Army Navy flotilla in the Philippine Sea.
These meetings are chaired by the monarch or, if he is ill or abroad, crown prince (the monarch's heir).
The District Council of Para Wirra was a local government area of South Australia from 1854 to 1935, seated at Maidstone (later called Kersbrook).
It was based in the eastern suburbs of Launceston, Tasmania's second city, and the surrounding rural area.
In 2012, a new award for poetry was announced and the Prize for Australian History was incorporated.
From the late 1830s to 1945, the area surrounding Port Adelaide was subdivided into many small district areas as owners bought, subdivided and sold areas of land.
Hammat graduated from the University of Western Australia with a BA in politics and industrial relations and a MA in labor and industrial relations.
While both Europe and the US believe that data should flow freely, China has taken an opposing stance and has adopted data localization, but with stricter regulations.
Galvin joined the Australian Public Service in 1950, with a personnel cadetship that enabled him to obtain an arts degree from the University of Adelaide.
The 1865 Warrego colonial by-election was a by-election held on 25 March 1865 in the electoral district of Warrego for the Queensland Legislative Assembly.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual budget statements and in the department's annual reports.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the Department's annual report.
The policy of multiculturalism has tended to be implicitly anti-British, despite Australia's British colonial heritage and the large number of British immigrants to Australia after World War II.
Among other things, the department was tasked with developing price stabilization and marketing plans for many agricultural commodities, including wheat.
See also Henry Tax Review List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Official website
He was awarded the Centenary Medal in 2001 for service to Australian society through public service leadership.
The Department of Education and Science was an Australian government department that existed between December 1966 and December 1972.
The Act was repealed in 1908 by the Seat of Government Act 1908, which selected Canberra as the new site for the territory.
The chamber itself is designed to seat up to 172 members, with room to accommodate a total of 240 with temporary seating.
Engineering heritage award Both the old and new Parliament House received an Engineering Heritage National Marker from Engineers Australia as part of its Engineering Heritage Recognition Program.
She competed at the World Championships and Games for the Disabled in Assen, Netherlands winning a bronze medal in Women's 100m T1 and fourth in Women's 400m T4.
In his report, Walsh found that there was a lack of coordination in the government over the establishment of cryptography policy.
This page details numerous records and characteristics of individuals who have held the office of Prime Minister of Australia.
The Consulate-General of Australia in Surabaya was established in February 2017, and is the fourth diplomatic mission of Australia in Indonesia after Jakarta (1935), Denpasar (1981), and Makassar (2016).
A corridor of oak trees has been planted at this place by each Prime Minister of Australia since Federation or a close family member.
Nominations The six candidates in ballot paper order are as follows: Result References External links Electoral Commission Queensland: 2016 Toowoomba South By-Election ABC Elections: 2016 Toowoomba South by-election
A three-part docu-drama series, The People vs Robodebt, commissioned by the SBS TV network, was first broadcast in September 2025.
The Department of Northern Australia was an Australian government department that existed between June and December 1975.
Only after the release of her diary and letters did the extent of her political influence become known to the wider public.
He was one of six chief investigators on an Australian Research Council Linkage project studying the history of ANZAC Day.
The Department of Transport was an Australian government department that existed between December 1972 and May 1982.
In 2001, the Constitution of Queensland was amended to restore the office of lieutenant-governor in that state.
He moved to the Investment Banking Group in Macquarie in 2005 where he was Principal Adviser, Regulatory involved with Macquarie Group interests globally in regulated utilities and infrastructure.
Personal Deahnne Mary McIntyre was born with spina bifida on 9 June 1971 in Canberra as a twin into a family of six children.
The Forum brings the world’s leading experts together with the “practitioners” of government: elected officials, civil servants, and political operatives from many countries.
She went on to question humans' contribution to the warming of the planet, suggesting that "climate changes continually, and if we have got to do something about it we have got to learn to adapt".
She was the first person to win a gold medal for the Australian Capital Territory at the Pacific School Games, in which she participated in 1984 and 1988.
Demographic projections released by the Queensland Centre for Population Research in 2011 found that there is a 50 per cent likelihood of Australia's population being larger than 35 million by 2050.
In February 2011 he responded to Cardinal George Pell's scepticism and ignorance about climate change during a Senate Estimates hearing.
Battle of Kapyong PVA forces of the 118th Division attacked the Kapyong Valley, and pushed ROK and New Zealand troops into retreat.
The Royal Majesty was the commonly used term to refer to the supreme executive authority under the 1809 Instrument of Government, under which the monarch made all decisions of state in the presence of his Cabinet ministers.
Beveridge, who had commissioned the Wattle Queen portrait of Elizabeth II, donated this portrait of Philip to the City of Melbourne.
The District Council of Munno Mara West was a local government area of South Australia on the central Adelaide Plains from 1854 to 1933.
Margaret and Alastair Macfarlane, "John Watts: Australia's Forgotten Architect 1814–1819 and South Australia's Postmaster General 1841–1861." Bonnells Bay, NSW.
The Australian Honour Flag is a special Australian flag that was created by the Commonwealth Government in 1918, as a result of World War I.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence.
Hunter is an atheist, and contributed a chapter to the 2010 Australian Book of Atheism on the topic of "Parliament and Prayer".
Term in office William "Bill" McMahon became Prime Minister of Australia on 10 March 1971, at the age of 63.
Stuart Francis Harris (born 14 March 1931) is a retired Australian senior public servant and academic.
Release of the complete report was also covered by Hobart's Mercury, Melbourne's Sun-Herald, The Sydney Morning Herald, many Internet news sites and radio stations in Perth and Sydney.
As counsel who was refused leave to appear, my sense of outrage over Parliament's denial of due process and natural justice remains undimmed after a lapse of 40 years".
The painting is part of the Royal Collection but has been on permanent loan to the Parliament of Australia since 1957.
Together with new dams and desalination plants the Commission aimed to counter the worst effects of drought in Australia.
According to political historian Brian Carroll: [Gorton's] style was Presidential rather than Prime Ministerial.
In 1988, Hayes left his position at the Australian Customs Service to take up the post of Secretary-General of the Customs Cooperation Council in Brussels (now known as the World Customs Organization).
Originally titled Defence Linguist Magazine, the name was changed to its current name after running a competition in the first edition.
The electoral district of Cumberland was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
In 1989, Harris was one of the three chairs appointed to lead the Ecologically Sustainable Development Process, commissioned by the Hawke Government.
Status The rules are a template only; the actual laws are those legislated by each state and territory.
The Secretary of the Department was David Rosalky, until 2001 and then subsequently Mark Sullivan, until 2004 and then Jeff Harmer.
Synopsis In All for Australia, Blainey argues: For the sake of national unity, the typical nation practises discrimination against migrants on the basis of ethnicity.
At the department's creation the department was responsible for the administration of Commonwealth policy on agricultural production, including responsibility for export inspection services, fisheries development and whaling.
The Treasury provides advice and assists in the formulation and implementation of government taxation and retirement income policies and legislation as well as providing information on material changes to taxation revenue forecasts and projections.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1903 state election, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
As of December 2023, there are 1,334 government entities reportable to the Australian Government Organisations Register.
The Department of National Development and Energy was an Australian government department that existed between December 1979 and March 1983.
Ronaldson served as the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Centenary of ANZAC, and the Special Minister of State in the Abbott government from 2013 to 2015.
A member of the Cabinet is appointed to hold the position of Vice-President of the Executive Council to act as presiding officer of the Executive Council in the absence of the Governor-General, at no additional salary or allowance.
Orders-in-council may be used to implement secondary legislation, such as British statutory instruments.
Generally, an official of sub-cabinet rank, an administrator is appointed by the President of the United States with the consent of the United States Senate and assigned to run a specific US government agency.
The National Security Adviser was disbanded by Prime Minister Tony Abbott in 2013 and with their roles integrated into the Deputy Secretary of the National Security and International Policy Group within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Posters containing the photos and the 'white badge of cruelty' were produced for hanging in museums and schools.
Ultimately, Petrov was accused by the Soviet Ambassador of several lapses in judgement that would have led to his imprisonment and probable execution upon his return to the Soviet Union.
Prior to ACT Self-Government in 1989, what is now the Jervis Bay Territory constituted part of the Australian Capital Territory.
In March 1996 the City of Port Adelaide merged with the City of Enfield to form the new City of Port Adelaide Enfield.
Consequently, legislation passed after UDI was "enacted by His Excellency the Officer Administering the Government, as the representative of the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Parliament of Rhodesia".
In practice, meetings will only be attended by a small number of Councillors rather than the full Cabinet.
The Criminal Justice Commission was responsible for significant research into the Queensland Police Service.
An example is the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which included language that prohibited data localization restrictions among participants, which was carried over to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
The longest service as an MP of a prime minister was Billy Hughes, who served from March 1901 until his death in October 1952, a total of 51 years.
In May 2016 the government handed down the 2016/17 federal budget which confirmed the final round of Australian aid cuts, $224 million or 7.4% of the Australian aid program.
Instead, immigration can be used to complement policy tools and urban design while reducing strain on infrastructure.
The Commissioner also has oversight of ASQA’s course accreditation process which accredits new courses to be nationally recognised, and ASQA’s regulatory reporting functions.
If the Governor-General is not in attendance, quorum is the vice-president and two serving ministers or assistant ministers.
Journalism Soutphommasane was a regular writer for The Australian newspaper, to which he contributed feature articles and the Ask the Philosopher column each Saturday.
The Register provides copies of all in force and superseded federal legislation, as well as legislative instruments, Regulations, Determinations, Notifiable Instruments and Administrative Arrangement Orders from 1901 onwards.
Some controversy existed over the 1893 election result, as a redistribution still awaiting royal assent had not been carried out due to the snap election and the sitting member and Speaker of the House, Nicholas John Brown, lost the seat to Don Urquhart, a Zeehan solicitor.
The Administrator of the British Indian Ocean Territory is the junior to a commissioner (Chagos Archipelago, notably Diego Garcia.
A paper that he read to the North Melbourne branch of the association on ‘The Discontent of the Working Classes’ came in for ‘severe criticism’ from radical members of the branch.
In 1981, Turner became a liaison officer for the Commonwealth heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) held in Melbourne, and in 1985 was appointed as director of the Alice Springs office of the DAA.
The Department of Primary Industry was an Australian government department that existed between January 1956 and June 1974.
The tallest prime minister is believed to be Gough Whitlam, who stood at around 6 feet 4 inches (194 cm) in height.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the department's annual reports.
He left the post in August 2018, and for his services was advanced to Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in the 2019 New Year Honours.
Other countries and stakeholders have protested against this Chinese strategy of restricting the free flow of data.
This and other criticisms of senators in the same article led Hughes and four of his colleagues to be banned from Parliament House for several months.
The agency's role was outlined in the Zoological Parks Board Act 1973 and Amendment Act 1992 and fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Environment.
The donation happened around the time of the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, which was declared open by Philip.
On April 1, 1998, the CES was dissolved, and its remaining employment services were vested with ESRA.
During his time in the role, he accompanied Minister for Supply Allen Fairhall overseas visiting the United Kingdom and the United States on departmental business.
List of departmental secretaries The Secretary of the Department of Defence (SECDEF) is a senior public service officer and historically the appointees have not come from military service.
During his time in the House of Representatives, Ronaldson served as the Shadow Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation, Shadow Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the Opposition and Shadow Minister for Schools, Vocational Education and Training.
He was involved in a variety of campaigns in the LGBTQ community, including a successful move to have sexuality included as a grounds for discrimination in 1986.
Hunter co-sponsored the 2011 Marriage Equality Bill with Greens MLC Tammy Franks also supported by the Australian Marriage Equality under its then national convenor Alex Greenwich who became the first same-sex married parliamentarian in Australia and the NSW Legislative Assembly.
This facility is designed to divert approximately 55,000 tonnes of food waste from landfill annually and is expected to generate up to 39,000 kWh of electricity per day, enough to power more than 2,200 households.
In February 1997, before the Walsh Report was publicly released, the Australian Attorney-General's Department embargoed it and withheld the report from commercial sale.
The Statute of Westminster required the Dominion governments be consulted on matters relating to the succession.
Under Fahour's leadership, in 2015 Australia Post recorded its first full-year loss in over 30 years, with half-year profits down some 56 percent.
By-elections to fill the new seats were held on 1 February 1865 (Maryborough and Rockhampton), on 18 March 1865 (Clermont and Kennedy) and on 25 March 1865 (Mitchell and Warrego).
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh is an Australian portrait of Prince Philip, consort to Elizabeth II who reigned as Queen of Australia from 1952 to 2022.
At its creation, the department was responsible for the following: National energy policy, including planning and research into coal, oil and gas, uranium, solar energy and other forms of energy Radioactive waste management.
The National Security Adviser was tasked with Chairing the National Intelligence Coordination Committee alongside a raft of other national security leadership and advice functions.
Alice Springs to Darwin In 1983, the federal government announced its intention to extend the standard gauge line from Alice Springs to Darwin to complete the Adelaide–Darwin rail corridor.
At the time of the 2007–08 budget, the Government announced total aid of $3.2 billion and an expectation "to continue increasing development assistance, to $3.5 billion in 2008-09, $3.8 billion in 2009–10 and $4.3 billion in 2010–11".
He donated the land on which Jackson Park sits to the people of the Blue Mountains in 1933 for use as a public park.
Career In 1902, Broinowski joined the Commonwealth Public Service in Melbourne as a clerk with the Department of Defence, a position obtained via Prime Minister Edmund Barton who was a friend of his father.
The Parliament House Art Collection of over 6,000 works includes commissioned (and purchased) portraits of every prime minister, governor-general, president of the senate and speaker of the house, as well as other works of art significant to Australia.
On that episode, they called it "Correction Time." The first time it was known as "Listener Mail" was on January 8, 2009, an episode that was inspired by a listener's email.
The podcast covered a range of topics ranging from information overload and digital clutter, to sexting, and the eavesdropping capabilities of our gadgets.
Guest appearances The show has regularly interviewed and has guest appearances of business executives, founders, and celebrities.
After the change of format in 2022, with the exception of Apodaca's welcome the catchphrases have mostly been dropped, with Campbell deciding to save "Welcome Back Bucket" for special occasions.
In another video segment, Internet Roundup, Chuck and Josh highlighted a couple of posts found deep in the web that they found interesting, entreating or amusing.
In January 2022, the podcast changed formats to shift away from intentionally playing bad games, in part to improve the experience for guests and the hosts.
Around the same time, the people responsible for filming the shows, the Pixel Corps and their leader, Alex Lindsay became more involved with the show, with many also contributing.
A sponsorship deal with America Online was announced on July 4, 2005, following the server demand that resulted from the release of iTunes 4.9's built-in podcasting directory.
Her television acting credits include guest appearances on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Criminal Minds, The Bold and the Beautiful and The Vampire Diaries.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
Leo Laporte (; born November 29, 1956) is the former host of The Tech Guy weekly radio show and founder of TWiT.tv, an Internet podcast network focusing on technology.
Career Jeffrey Zeldman briefly worked as a reporter for The Washington Post and ten years as an advertising copywriter before turning to web design in 1995.
As of January 2024, TED Radio Hour has earned 4 wins and 2 nominations, which includes: The Webby Awards 2018 Winner for Best Science and Education Podcasts (General Series).
Both Goldman and Dzotsi left the show in 2022 with the final episode released on June 23 of that year.
Aggregators have all three of the following characteristics: direct relationship with users; zero marginal costs for serving users; and demand-driven multi-sided networks with decreasing acquisition costs.
The talks (all of which have been previously recorded and released by TED) are supplemented by follow-up interviews with the speaker, original reporting and other segments that bring the ideas to life.
Windows Metafile controversy In January 2006, Steve Gibson accused Microsoft of intentionally putting a backdoor into the Windows Metafile processing code in Windows 2000 and Windows XP.
In later episodes the question would be posed by the merchant from Resident Evil 4, voiced by Campbell.
Speakers, in addition to offering informative content, must have made major contributions to web design or development in order to qualify to speak at the event.
Format Episodes generally consist of one-on-one interviews conducted by Bret Kugelmass, Jadwiga Najder, Olubunmi Olajide, or Naomi Senehi with guests who are experts in nuclear energy.
In May 2019, Recode was integrated into Vox Media's flagship website, Vox, becoming the column Recode by Vox.
Co-hosts include frequent collaborators Brian Ibbott from Coverville, Brian Dunaway from Comics Coast to Coast, and Randy Jordan (formerly of The Instance).
They began producing episodes for Wow in the World together and the podcast debuted on May 15, 2017.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
Bibliography Laporte has written technology-oriented books including: He has published a yearly series of technology almanacs: Laporte announced in October 2006 that he would not renew his contract with Que Publishing, and had retired from publishing books.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
The full set is available via YouTube and the Internet Archive References External links Official website Ubuntu Podcast's channel on YouTube Archive of all episodes
In 2016, Zeldman's business association with Happy Cog ended, and he launched an independent design consultancy called Studio Zeldman.
Topics covered ranged from racism on Facebook, to a neuroscientist's view on information overload, to a piece by performance artist Marina Abramović which involved an audience sitting in total silence wearing noise-canceling headphones for 30 minutes before a live performance of J.S.
As the hosts encourage their audience to watch the material prior to the episode, they attempt to focus on items available via streaming media, primarily Netflix.
Most releases of the show were licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives licence, but shows released after December 2007 are under the Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported licence.
On March 6, 2023, Vox media announced that in order to make the various Vox sub brands less confusing to its readers, it was retiring Recode brand but would continue its mission to explain complex issues around technology to its readers under the unified Vox brand.
Julian Feeld has told Wired that QAnon is "a colorful expression of a broader and more worrying global trend towards 'information warfare' in the service of those seeking to consolidate capital and power".
Starting in November 2021, Thompson began hosting a weekly headline podcast entitled Plain English, part of The Ringer Podcast Network.
Ethics of XR Bye is an advocate for discourse around the ethics and moral dilemmas presented by VR and AR.
When Ezarik first moved to Los Angeles, she was managed by Richard Frias who also manages YouTube celebrities HappySlip and KevJumba, but according to a post on Ezarik's alternate Twitter account she was unmanaged and earned money by appearing at conferences and in online promotional spots.
Production For the first 40 episodes, Rhysider was responsible for all of the research, writing, narrating, editing, sound design, publishing, marketing, and logistics.
In a post explaining the move, he cited a desire for more editorial freedom and to write for himself after almost two decades at a single publication.
Later on, due to a passionate cult following, Rhysider was able to enlist the help of additional writers, researchers, editors, and graphic designers.
This includes science, intellectual property, venture capital, bioenterprise finance, bioenterprise law, strategic market insights, regulatory expertise, biostrategic media relations, bioethics, bioenterprise information systems, social policy and multinational expertise.
Tech News Today was the recipient of the 2012 International Academy of Web Television award for Best News Web Series.
In January 2014, Zeis was also named Editor-in-Chief of Smartwatch Fans, a fan site that was focused purely on smartwatches and wearable devices.
When Sites asked her to turn off her lifecasting equipment later in the interview, he noted that "at once the conversation seemed more relaxed and natural," and she discussed the difficulty of having people watching and publicly judging her all day.
In 2016, she was an advisor to Arnold Schwarzenegger on the reality competition series The New Celebrity Apprentice.
Meanwhile, Current Geek Weekly is a weekly discussion of geek culture stories and the companion podcast to the Current Geek podcasts still produced by Frogpants Studios.
Early life Jeffrey Zeldman was born on January 12, 1955, in Queens, New York, to the robotics engineer Maurice Zeldman and his wife Phyllis Sylvia Zeldman.
Sponsors of the network include Ford, Audible, Lantronix, Squarespace, Hulu, Rackspace, Hover, Carbonite, Stamps.com and more.
By June 2009, she had 590,000 Twitter followers, 94,000 subscribers to the iJustine YouTube channel, and 25,000 Facebook fans.
Launched in October 2017, episodes average around 30 minutes to an hour, each covering a single topic through original interviews, audio footage, and Rhysider's narration.
LugRadio was a British podcast on the topic of Linux and events in the free and open source software communities, as well as coverage of technology, digital rights and politics.
Photocastnetwork The podcast is also the flagship show of the Photocast Network, a community of podcasters producing content related to photography.
In 2008, Laporte did a voice narration of Andrew Lang's fable The True History of Little Golden-hood from Audible (Amazon), a sponsor.
In a variation on this segment called "Sports, Sports, Sports", Blumberg instead explains sports-related tweets to Vogt and Goldman.
During the first few years TWiT episodes were made available in a variety of file formats for individual download or RSS subscription.
In September 2008, Revision3 started Revision3 Beta, a "talent-farming" sub-network of unofficial shows headed by Martin Sargent.
Format and distribution Waveform episodes are typically released on a weekly schedule and range from approximately 45 to 130 minutes in length, with monthly bonus episodes.
Wow in the World is a children's podcast hosted by children's media and audio veterans Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
The change was marked by the omission of NPR's name in the show's opening audio sequence after the tagline, "You're listening to Radiolab...from WNYC." Horne left RadioLab in 2015, and Krulwich retired as co-host in February 2020.
Production Linux Outlaws was recorded simultaneously by the presenters in their respective homes – Hanover and Merseyside, England – and published in both the Ogg Vorbis and MP3 formats.
The show was based in the United Kingdom, and had a community forum as well as multiple social network accounts dedicated to fostering inter-communication among fans.
The podcast initially launched as an audio-only show distributed on platforms including Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.
On April 21, 2008, on the 47th episode of Systm, it was announced that Chief Engineer and co-host David Randolph had left for another job outside of Revision3.
TED Radio Hour is a weekly, hour-long radio program and podcast, produced as a co-production between TED (conference) and National Public Radio.
Producers In addition to Nora Young, producers included Michelle Parise, Adam Killick, Kent Hoffman Dan Misener, Elizabeth Bowie and Carma Jolly.
I've been converted." In 1985, following Steve Jobs leaving Apple, Dvorak wrote, "Maybe when the smoke clears, we will have heard the last of Steve Jobs as guru, seer, visionary and hapless victim too ...
Though the audio production company Defacto Sound, which is owned by Taylor, is the production headquarters for Twenty Thousand Hertz, he has said that the podcast is not intended as content marketing.
Episodes typically include discussion of recent technology news, analysis of consumer electronics products, and recurring segments such as trivia games or typing challenges at the end of episodes.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
Radio and television From December 1977 to May 1998, Laporte hosted newstalk and interview shows on KGO, KSFO, and KNBR in San Francisco.
Following the August 6, 2009, Twitter Denial-of-service attack Ezarik was featured in The Wall Street Journal describing her coping mechanisms, such as repeatedly tapping the F5 function key (the refresh button), for Twitter outages.
An annual segment, Email Debt Forgiveness Day, created an annual holiday on April 30 inviting listeners to send responses to old emails no matter how overdue.
LugRadio Live LugRadio Live was an annual event organised by the LugRadio team and held in Wolverhampton.
On Tech Nation, Gunn's focus has always been on the societal impact of technology and science, understanding the nature of innovation, and giving everyday listeners a sense of how to deal with the technological tsunami around them.
Annie Kelly acts as the podcast's United Kingdom correspondent and joined the podcast as the conspiracy theory spread from the United States to other countries, such as when it was accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Diggnation (rebooted) has also featured special guests: Episode 3: Glenn McElhose Episode 11: Jason Calacanis, Chris Sacca, Tim Ferriss, and Alexis Ohanian Episode 13: Doctor Tiki and Lala of Tiki Bar TV Episode 14: Digg Advisor Jayci Hayes Awards 2006: Podcast Award for best technology podcast.
On May 18, 2022, it was announced that hosts Dzotsi and Goldman were leaving the show and the current iteration of Reply All would end on June 23, 2022.
A number of episodes of the parallel BBC radio documentary series 30 Animals That Made Us Smarter were included as bonuses in the podcast feed of early episodes of series 2.
The Atlantic included the episode "Shine on, You Crazy Goldman" on their list of "The 50 Best Podcast Episodes of 2015".
Guests have included professors, business executives, politicians, diplomats, scientists, and others.
The series has Ezarik and Nguyen getting lost in various locales and solving their problems using AT&T equipment.
Usually there were three in-depth stories, each of which was separated by a clip of Creative Commons licensed music.
History The program began when Laporte recorded a one-off round-table discussion between himself, Patrick Norton, Sarah Norton, Kevin Rose, David Prager, and Roger Chang at the 2005 Macworld Expo in San Francisco.
Previous regular presenters were Matthew Revell (Seasons 1 – 4), Adrian Bradshaw (Seasons 2 – 4) and Stephen Parkes (Season 1, and the first few shows of Season 2).
In 2006, LugRadio won the award for Best Marketing Campaign at the UK Linux and Open Source Awards in London and won the award for Best Linux Podcast in the Christmas 2007 edition of Linux Format magazine.
Background In 2014, Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas had a Twitter exchanged that led to some collaborations.
It airs on the National Public Radio "NPR Now" channel at SiriusXM 122, public radio stations both nationally and internationally, and the Internet in a number of podcast syndication outlets podcast.
Throughout high school, Denson was a member of the marching band, and participated on the swim team, track, cross country, and golf.
Harford explained in a BBC interview in 2017 that his motivation for creating the show was "to paint a picture of economic change by telling the stories of the ideas, people, and tools that had far-reaching consequences".
Its books are designed to be quick reads and treat advanced topics in web design with a strong point of view.
The nomination cited its unusual social media presence, including an event where the hosts accepted phone calls from listeners for 48 hours straight.
The process of starting their company is documented in the podcast ZigZag, which is also their first production.
References External links Official website Leo Laporte at IMDb Leo Laporte in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
The scopes of the two sites were not expected to overlap with Recode's emphasis on technology industry business and The Verge's on "being a new kind of culture publication".
In 2007, Mevio hired Dvorak as vice president and Managing Editor for a new Mevio TECH channel, where he manages content from existing Mevio tech programming.
In 2019, the podcast was named the best podcast of the year by Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant and the sixth best podcast of the year by The New Yorker.
It was picked up by Business Insider, The Huffington Post, CNN, Heise, and a televised CNBC discussion segment, among others.
He appeared on Marketwatch TV and This Week in Tech, a podcast audio and now video program hosted by Leo Laporte and featuring other former TechTV personalities such as Patrick Norton, Kevin Rose, and Robert Heron.
More recently, he has hosted two podcasts: Neutral and the Accidental Tech Podcast, with John Siracusa and Casey Liss.
As of January 2023, Radiolab has earned 13 podcast industry award nominations, including 7 wins, including the 2013 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Science and Medicine Podcast and the 2015 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Produced Podcast.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Gunn was awarded the Public Service Award to the Individual by the National Science Board, for her contributions to the public understanding of science and engineering.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Boiling Point, which he later narrated as an audiobook, describes a near future United States civil war.
In July 2014 he returned to The Verge as editor-in-chief, after Joshua Topolsky left the position to work at Bloomberg.
In July 2021, Friedberg announced that The Production Board raised $300 million from Alphabet, Baillie Gifford, Allen & Co., BlackRock, Koch Disruptive Technologies and Morgan Stanley's Counterpoint Global.
Additionally, upwards of 80 percent of listeners reported that the program's pace was exciting, and over 80 percent reported that the layering of interviews was engaging.
Vox Media acquired the website in May 2015 in a move that The New York Times described as a reflection of tumult in online technology journalism.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
At the Berkman Center for Internet & Society he leads ProjectVRM, which guides independent software development communities working on Vendor Relationship Management (VRM).
The program was formerly known as Call for Help when it was recorded in the US and Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Originally started on July 7, 2009, Fourcast had Merritt and Johnson inviting guests to discuss the future and what it might contain in a so-called virtual fireside setting.
Other early guests in 2018 included eventual Assistant Secretary of Energy for Nuclear Energy and head of the Office of Nuclear Energy, Rita Baranwal, and individuals associated with both the Idaho National Laboratory and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
As of May 22, 2017, she was working for Microsoft as a Senior Cloud Developer Advocate where she, among other things, hosted This Week in Channel 9.
Each episode was originally broadcast on BBC World Service, with a subsequent broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and distribution as a BBC podcast.
The show attracted about five hundred Linux enthusiasts from many countries around the world with several travelling from as far as Europe and Australia.
Journalism Zeis graduated West Morris Mendham High School in 1997 and attended Fairleigh Dickinson University with a major in Computer Science.
Reception Charlotte Hilton Andersen wrote in Reader's Digest that the hosts "have a knack for picking science stories that kids will find fascinating".
As part of the Mobile Nations network, Smartwatch Fans was the first non-mobile site under the Mobile Nations name.
Christina Warren (born November 12, 1982), is an American developer advocate, podcaster, and writer.
Lawyers from TWiT believed this violated a spoken agreement between Leo Laporte and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams made in 2009, and infringed on TWiT's trademark.
Design agency In 1999, Zeldman founded Happy Cog, a web and interaction design studio specializing in user-and content-focused, standards-compliant design.
Rich DeMuro later appeared on the show to announce that he would take over in January with a weekly show, recorded on Saturdays, called "Rich On Tech." Laporte appeared on Friday mornings on KFI with Bill Handel, and previously on such shows as Showbiz Tonight, Live with Kelly, and World News Now.
Podcasting Zeis is best known for his hosting role on the CrackBerry.com podcast alongside Kevin Michaluk and Chris (Bla1ze) Parsons.
Discussions revolve around nuclear power as an alternative and potentially carbon-negative energy source.
The Book (Prentice Hall PTR, October, 2003) with co-authors Wendy Taylor and Chris Pirillo and his latest e-book is Inside Track 2013.
Vogt and Alex Goldman, who were the show's original hosts; they had previously hosted the technology and culture podcast TLDR for WNYC.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
The podcast and its guests are broadly proponents of the proliferation of nuclear energy, but some guests have taken an opposing position.
Ezarik signed with the William Morris Endeavor in July 2017, and she was named one of the top 10 Top Tech/Business Influencers by Forbes for 2017.
On February 23, 2014, before recording TWiT 446, Laporte stated that episode bandwidth for the entire network is around 950 terabytes per month.
His byline has also appeared in many other publications, including OMNI, Wired, PC Magazine, The Standard, The Sun Magazine, Upside, Release 1.0 and The Globe and Mail.
The third, "The Anti-Social Century," published in the magazine's February 2025 issue, points out that Americans are spending more time alone than ever before.
Laporte hosted the daily television show The Lab with Leo Laporte, recorded in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
After their initial funding fell through, Zomorodi and Poyant partnered with Civil, a marketplace that used blockchain technology to distribute news but Civil shut down in 2020.
It is co-hosted by Travis View (real name: Logan Strain), Julian Feeld, and Jake Rockatansky, alongside Annie Kelly (British correspondent), Liv Agar (Canadian correspondent), Brad Abrahams (Inner Earth correspondent), and Allie Mezei (QAA Legal Analyst).
Laporte had been a midday, general-interest radio host until the increasing popularity of Rush Limbaugh, after which he created and co-hosted the tech talk radio show On Computers from January 1991 to July 1994.
Among Searls' contributions to the Manifesto was its first thesis, "Markets are conversations"—also the title of the Cluetrain chapter he co-wrote with David Weinberger.
Crossovers and appearances Rhysider has made appearances on a variety of other programs, the most notable being Snap Judgment and the Lit Hub/Podglomerate Storybound.
People's Choice Podcast Awards 2018 People's Voice Award Winner for Best Science and Education Podcast.
Instead, I looked back at what I wrote with regret, guilt, and embarrassment." Arment expressed remorse for adding to the fear of imminent doom that regularly surrounds Apple instead of the more gradual decline in quality and constructive criticism he intended.
The first book in the series was titled Wow in the World: The How and Wow of The Human Body and the second was titled Wow in the Wild: The Amazing World of Animals.
Early life Justine Ezarik was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the oldest daughter of Michelle Ezarik, a physical education teacher, and Steve Ezarik, a coal miner of Slovak descent.
Note to Self was a podcast hosted by Manoush Zomorodi that focused on the impacts of technology on everyday life.
which debuted on May 17, 2017 and produced by Tinkercast, LLC, a company established by Thomas and Raz to produce children's audio., and distributed by Wondery.
Innovation Crush podcast In 2013, Denson launched Innovation Crush, an interview series focused on the lives and projects of some of the world's most influential innovators.
Denson attended Michigan State University, where he earned a degree in packaging engineering and was a member of the school's martial arts team.
In September 2025, TBPN hired former Postmates and HQ Trivia executive Dylan Abruscato as President.
On September 16, 2015, Arment released Peace, a Safari content blocker for iOS 9 using the Ghostery database.
Career After a brief stint as an engineer at Daimler-Chrysler, Denson moved to Los Angeles to pursue the entertainment industry full-time.
LugRadio Live UK 2008 took place on the weekend of 19 July 2008 at the Light House Media Centre in Wolverhampton.
Nilay Patel () is an American editor and blogger who has been editor-in-chief of technology news website The Verge since 2014.
In high school he led the environmental club "Students H.O.P.E." (Students Healing Our Planet Earth).
Both Dan and Fabian are described as "down to earth, normal, everyday people" by listeners and reviewers alike.
Early life Denson was born in Detroit, Michigan to Christine Denson, a school teacher, and John Denson, a theologian.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
In 2015, a virtual reality blog called Road to VR started to syndicate all future episodes of the Voices of VR podcast on their website.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
Patel coined the term "Google Zero" to criticize the direction of search engines like Google Search integrating LLM tools like AI Overviews, which scrape media outlets for content and reduce click-through web traffic.
Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic enshrines freedom of worship, thereby making any discrimination based on religion punishable by law, and obligating the government to ensure the protection of this freedom.
Formal limitations Belgium has prohibited the wearing of niqab and other face-covering garments in public, officially due to the state’s claim of the importance of “living together”.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
During a hearing on 12 August 2004, in the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal, Watts said that after the press release, she suffered vandalism to her property and an assault at her home, in addition to general "hatred, contempt and revulsion".
See also Act of Uniformity 1549 Religious persecution Christian debate on persecution and toleration Theocracy == References ==
In 305, Diocletian abdicated and was replaced by Galerius, his successor, who continued persecution in the East until 311, when he granted Christians forgiveness, freedom of worship and (implicitly) the status of religio licita.
See also References Bibliography Benn, Tony; Hood, Andrew (1993), Winstone, Ruth (ed.), Common Sense, Hutchinson, ISBN 0-09-177308-3 Goodwin, Stephen (12 December 1992).
She also complained of breach of her right to a family life under Art.8, because she was bound to work some Sundays, and her husband did not.
14307/88) is a landmark case of the European Court of Human Rights, decided in 1993 and concerning compatibility of certain sanctions for proselytism with Articles 7 and 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Opposition Bishop Rudigier of Linz became known for his memorable struggle against the laws, which were hostile to the Church and against to the marriage and school laws.
European Court of Human Rights Lautsi then appealed to the European Court of Human Rights on 27 July 2006.
The Bill was passed during the premiership of The Duke of Wellington six years later for the Catholics of Ireland and Britain — without a veto.
The law ensured that citizens could use their tax dollars to support the church of their choice, not just the one officially sponsored by their community.
The Interconfessional laws were a series of 19th-century laws in Austria that were meant to install a government based on separation of church and state and passed on 25 May 1868.
All religious groups must obtain permits from the national Ministry of Guidance and Social Endowments, the state Ministry of Construction and Planning, and the local planning office before constructing new houses of worship.
Attitude towards Jews and Judaism Rhetoric by Palestinian militant groups include expressions of anti-Semitism.
Juridical personality allows a religious group to apply for all tax benefits available to nonprofit organizations.
The Shouwang Church (守望教会) is a Protestant house church in Beijing, China, and almost the biggest of about 3,000 of such congregations in the city.
The agreement between representatives of both sides, reached after meeting from 13 March to 20 March, declared the agreement from the Basel Council the basic law of the land.
In Sarajevo, Tuzla, Travnik, Zepce, Banja Luka, Bihac, and Zenica, students may attend Catholic school centers.
Other politicians in the Lok Sabha at New Delhi, and the Minister of State for Law condemned the Petition.
Every individual has the right to freely profess his/her religion and to disseminate it individually or collectively.
In September 2022, a 26-year-old man was arrested and charged under Uttar Pradesh's anti-conversion law.
The First Amendment to the United States Constitution was one of the first legal protections for freedom of religion without reference to any specific religion.
The Uttar Pradesh district court convicted him, sentenced him to five years of imprisonment and gave him a ₹40,000 fine.
Followers of other faiths shall be free within the bounds of law in the exercise and performance of their religious rights.
In 2007, the United States Department of State released a study of the state of religious freedom in the Palestinian territories as part of its annual international study.
Office of Public Policy The Office of Public Policy (OPP) is the Washington, D.C., political arm of the Center for Inquiry.
The Government imposed no formal restrictions on religious groups, and all religious communities were free to conduct public services and to open and operate social and charitable institutions.
Following months of debate a last-minute concession was offered—the Muslim and Jewish communities would have a year to provide evidence that animals slaughtered by traditional methods do not experience greater pain than those that are stunned before they are killed.
Members of minority religious groups are concentrated in the largest cities, including Asunción, Ciudad del Este, and Encarnación.
Swastikas and other Nazi symbols were painted on monuments, and many tombstones were damaged beyond repair.
For instance, the Taiwan Council for Religion and Peace, the China Religious Believers Association, and the Taiwan Religious Association are private organizations that promote greater understanding and tolerance among adherents of different religions.
During the wait, the following is forbidden: public worship services, distribution of literature and materials, the hiring of foreign clergy.
Religious freedom The Constitution of Uruguay provides for the freedom of religion and states that "the State supports no religion".
Recognized religious communities also continued to receive in-kind assistance, such as property on which to build houses of worship, from other government ministries and from local governments.
After the decentralization of the post-Carolingian period, this became the slogan of the Catholic Church in light of disapproval over lay warlords installing themselves as abbots and other high-profile churchmen.
In the 1850s, moves to increased religious toleration included the Liberty of Religious Worship Act 1855 and the Jews Relief Act 1858.
They requested permission from the Captains Regent to take the oath required by the Elections Act without reference to any religious text.
The National Assembly, the Council of States, and the Cabinet feature both Muslims and Christians in prominent roles.
In February 2007 the SPC filed a lawsuit in the Supreme Court over excessively lengthy legal procedures, largely because its earlier lawsuit against the alleged wrongful privatization of the cinema property had been pending before the Administrative Court for 3 years.
Additionally, similar practices (such as having citizens identify their religious preference to the government or on identification cards) can have different consequences depending on other sociopolitical circumstances specific to the countries in question.
Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides a right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework Freedom of religion is significantly restricted.
Roman Catholic and non-denominational Christian churches have been established in Nouakchott, Atar, Zouerate, Nouadhibou, and Rosso.
Various other reforms were proposed along liberal lines, such as a single age of consent, abolition of blasphemy laws, and equal rights in law for homosexuals.
The Jewish community responded to these objections by assuring the public that the method was in fact humane.
A collection of the public general statutes passed in the 22nd year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria.
The registration issue has political as well as religious overtones, since it raises the question of whether the Orthodox Church should be oriented toward the Moscow Patriarchate or the Bucharest Patriarchate.
This agreement finished a long series of religious conflicts in the Czech lands and constituted a definitive end to the Hussite Wars.
Constitutional scholar George Williams, writing in 1994, criticised the court's literal interpretation of the provision and others in the Constitution, saying the court has "transformed the Constitution into a wasteland of civil liberties".
During the ongoing conflict over the anticlerical articles of the 1917 constitution, they systematically destroyed church buildings.
To register, religious associations must submit to the government their members’ personal data (e.g., names, addresses, personal identification numbers, and signatures), which the law says may not be shared with other public institutions or used in any other way.
Some Muslim religious leaders preach sermons on the official PA television station that included expressions of anti-Semitism.
The Hungarian government has been criticized for passing legislation based on religious ideas and outsourcing government duties and public services to churches.
Hinduism Hinduism is a minority faith in Bosnia-Herzegovina, represented mainly by the ISKCON movement.
The Chinese Communist crackdown on Christianity had paused in 2020 due to the 2019-2020 coronavirus pandemic.
The group, created to carry out the governor's orders, takes its name from its uniform of red shirts, black pants, and black and red military caps.
In 2007, the 'Religious Affairs Bureau' of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in South Korea took the lead in organizing groups such as the Korean Religious Council and the Council for Peaceful Religions to promote interfaith dialogue and understanding.
The move threatens the site’s egalitarian prayer section and could strain the relationship with the Reform Judaism, the largest branch of Judaism in the United States.
It describes itself as "protecting the equal rights of nonreligious Americans." The Secular Coalition has chapters in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, composed of lobbyists trained by the organization.
Common Sense, subtitled A New Constitution for Britain is a book written by the British Labour politician Tony Benn and Andrew Hood.
Eight states continue to have a religious test in their constitutions, but the clause is inoperable and unenforceable because of the 1961 Supreme Court decision.
Despite tensions between religious groups during the Bosnian War, Montenegro remained fairly stable, mainly due its population having a historic perspective on religious tolerance and faith diversity.
Religious demography Cape Verde is an archipelago consisting of 10 islands, 9 of which are inhabited.
The government requires Greek Orthodox religious instruction in public schools; non-Greek Orthodox pupils may be excused.
Christians are the third largest religious group, traditionally concentrated in the south and the Nuba Mountains.
Transnistrian authorities believe the attacks were propagated by the same people and claim they are investigating the incidents.
The case The case stemmed from a request of Soile Lautsi, a Finnish-born Italian national, against the School Council of a school in Abano Terme (province of Padua).
The nuns stated they possessed all necessary documents, including parental consent forms and identification for the women.
In September 2007 police arrested Jehovah's Witnesses José Ortega and Asunción Bernarda Ortega Gaona for refusing to allow doctors to give their daughter blood transfusions.
After the fall of Communism, Gorbachev had given much-needed breathing room to the practice of religion in Russia, whose culture's heart is Eastern Orthodoxy, but had also opened the door indiscriminately and generally to the practice of religion.
Concerning Article 6 (access to court), the Commission reaffirmed that the right of an individual to protect his reputation can be regarded as a civil right protected by Article 6, but did not extend this protection to a group, when the national legislation didn't foresee that.
Garrido also invited the First Congress of Socialist Students to meet in the state of Tabasco and created a form of socialist education which he termed "Rationalist".
If the parents are not married when the child is born, the baby is registered with the same affiliation as the parent who has custody of the child.
Forced religious conversion There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The Faculty of Theology spoke out against it, and Parliament's Church Committee therefore did not promote the proposal before Parliament.
The Coalition's member organizations, as of 2023, are: American Atheists American Ethical Union American Humanist Association Atheist Alliance of America Association of Secular Elected Officials Black Nonbelievers, Inc.
Former prisoners have reported that Falun Gong practitioners consistently received "the longest sentences and worst treatment" in labor camps, and in some facilities Falun Gong practitioners formed the substantial majority of detainees.
In May 2007 the Supreme Court ruled that the government's expropriation in 2005 of approximately 319,000 acres (1,290 km2) of land in Puerto Casado owned by Reverend Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church was unconstitutional.
Unconfirmed reports suggest that the Tajikistan government has attempted to restrict the influence of two popular Islamic scholars by stopping Muslims from outside the scholar's districts from coming to their mosques to worship, barring them from becoming members of the IRPT .
Pro studied in Mexico until 1914 when a massive wave of governmental anti-Catholicism forced the novitiate to dissolve and the Jesuits to flee to Los Gatos, California, in the United States.
As part of their public relations work, State agencies characterised these associations as a "sect", "youth sect", "youth religion" and "psycho-sect".
In March 1874 the Trier bishop Matthias Eberhard was put under arrest and died shortly after he was released from nine months of custody in 1876.
Federal Governments have twice proposed the amendment of Section 116, principally to apply its provisions to laws made by the states.
Religious peace and tolerance helped for development of the land, but it contributed to the future conflicts of interests between middle-class and nobility.
See also Religion in Croatia Human rights in Croatia Holy See-Yugoslavia relations References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
Gladstone's decision came against strained relations with France and manoeuvring by "men on the spot" in Egypt.
After interrogating the two magistrates and after the two of them and Hart had submitted apologies for their actions, the governor and councilors settled on the schout as mainly responsible.
One cause of this was that Spanish colonial missions sent priests to convert indigenous people, who had always been a very small population in Uruguay.
The Sunzhuang Church was a church which was destroyed on June 12, 2020, when more than 200 Chinese Communist Party officials from different departments including the Zhengzhou High-Tech District's Ethnic and Religious Affairs Bureau brought cranes and heavy-duty machinery to the area.
Aaron Rhodes then acknowledged that the Moscow office of the IHFHR had received funding from the Church of Scientology to print a leaflet about religious freedom in Russia, and voiced his astonishment at the charge.
A compulsory curriculum requires the study of Christianity for Christian students and Islam for Muslim students in grades one through six.
Baptist view The basic concept of individual soul liberty, is that in matters of religion, each person has the liberty to choose what conscience or soul dictates is right, and is responsible to no one but God for the decision that is made.
It ruled by a vote of six-to-three that a Jehovah's Witness man's freedom to manifest his religion, protected by Article 9, had been violated by the Greek government.
Switzerland (permitted to require children to participate in mixed swimming lessons and enforce this through fines) Executief van de Moslims van België and Others v.
Satheesan called it a "police witch-hunt" and a "mob trial," accusing the Sangh Parivar of hypocrisy.
Finally when our law had been promulgated to the effect that they should conform to the institutes of antiquity, many were subdued by the fear of danger, many even suffered death.
According to the organization, keeping such religious symbols violates the separation of church and state as established by the Constitution of Brazil.
Persecution and tolerance are both the result of alterity, the state of otherness, and the question of how to properly deal with those who are 'outside' the defined identity.
The Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations (Russian: «Закон О свободе совести и о религиозных объединениях»), also known as the 1997 Law (Russian: «Закон 1997 года») is a Russian law passed and signed by President Boris Yeltsin on September 26, 1997.
The Serbian Orthodox Church accused the new legislation of being discriminatory, specifically raising concerns that it would allow the government to confiscate church property.
In 2023, the country was scored zero out of 4 for religious freedom; it was also noted that non-Muslim foreigners are only permitted to observe their religions privately.
In 2003 the government approved a Shia request to establish a court of cassation to oversee Shia personal status issues.
The attack on absolutism, the defence of the rule of law and the emphasis on the importance of the covenant made Lex, Rex a precursor to the social contract idea, and helped pave the way for the political theory of John Locke.
In May 2022, the Committee on Religion, Regulation of Traditions, Celebrations, and Ceremonies (CRA) announced that they will no longer register any new Christian churches.
It has an area of 1,557 square miles (4,030 km2) and a population of 458,000, according to the National Statistics Institute.
Epega (president of the Non-Governmental Organization Respeito Brasil Yourubá), Baptist priest Djalma Rosa Torres, Vaishnava Hindu priest Jagannatha Dhama Dasa and Milton R.
Reports in the Greek Cypriot press about an earlier incident at the same school, which reported that an 11-year-old male Turkish Cypriot student verbally insulted a Greek Cypriot student wearing a Christian cross, were blamed for inciting the latter event.
Orthodox Jewish law strictly prohibits women reading from the Torah, and to a lesser degree women wearing tallit and kippahs.
By an Act of Parliament – The Church of Scotland Act 1921 – the Articles Declaratory were held to be lawful, thus recognising the Church of Scotland as the national church in Scotland but independent from the state in matters spiritual.
Since God in his power is infinitely superior to any [secular] authority, the right of God is also infinitely superior to the right of any authority.
In March 2015, a 27-year-old Afghan woman was murdered by a mob in Kabul over false allegations of burning a copy of the Qur'an.
Sources often attribute the signing of the Tokyo peace treaty to this phenomenon, as it reduced the sense of national emergency that had previously fueled the militant patriotic activism.
Repeal of the Conventicle Act By 1818 there was a proposal to give the Quakers limited rights to organize.
For example, on October 13, 2006, authorities fined Polish citizen and Catholic priest Antoni Koczko $29 (62,000 rubles) for conducting an "unauthorized" religious service in Minsk, since he had been assigned to a church in Slutsk.
The bishops, and many of the clergy, were fined or imprisoned — notably, two archbishops, Ledóchowski of Gnesen-Posen and Melchers of Cologne; four bishops, Brinkman of Munster, Blum of Limburg, Forster of Breslau, Martin of Paderborn; one auxiliary bishop, Janiszewski of Posen.
However at the same time the 62nd article states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church shall be the national church (þjóðkirkja) and the national curriculum places emphasis on Christian studies.
Groups who do not register with the government are not allowed to set up bank accounts and may face being banned; group founders and board members can face up to one year in prison and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 CFA francs.
The first three limbs prohibit the Commonwealth from making certain laws: laws "for establishing any religion"; laws "for imposing any religious observance"; and laws "for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion".
Overview of bill Under the provisions of the bill: The monarchy would be abolished and the constitutional status of the Crown ended.
Chakraborty wrote to the Secretary, Department of Home Government of West Bengal, demanding the ban of the Quran.
Shia worshipers gathered peacefully in public spaces to attend sermons and eulogies during Ashura and the government provided security to Shia neighborhoods.
The law redefined the state's relationship with religion, as the USSR president Mikhail Gorbachev had defined in on the Law of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic on Freedom of Worship passed on October 25, 1990, commonly known as the 1990 Law.
Although they singled out Feake for punishment, the ordinance they passed subsequent to the release from imprisonment and pardoning of the Hart and the magistrates maintains that all four of the town's officials were jointly at fault.
The French understand "freedom of religion" primarily as the freedom of the individual to believe or not to believe what any religion teaches.
The incident also drew commentary from national organizations focused on civil liberties and religious freedom, which argued that the assembly raised constitutional concerns.
Venugopal and other United Democratic Front (UDF) MPs from Kerala staged protests outside Parliament, demanding immediate release of the nuns and accountability for the injustice.
While non-Muslim expatriates are generally permitted to worship privately, public religious pluralism, proselytization, and activities perceived as contradicting Islamic principles are prohibited or tightly controlled.
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
Title V: Regulation of religious associations Article 25 declared all worship services open to the people.
20th century In 1965, the Second Vatican Council issued the Dignitatis Humanae, which stated the church's support for protecting religious liberty.
The Warsaw Confederation of 1573 was a groundbreaking document that established religious tolerance in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.
The Stefanus Prize is a human rights prize awarded to individuals for their outstanding contributions to defending freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
On April 28, 2025, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a fresh plea filed by petitioner Syed Alo Akbar challenging the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025.
The case was also significant, since the Commission recognised in its decision the right of a church to petition on behalf of its members, changing the previous practice.
Declining a blindfold, he faced his executioners with a crucifix in one hand and a rosary in the other and held his arms out in imitation of the crucified Christ and shouted out, "May God have mercy on you!
Mongolia: The Emblem of Mongolia has multiple Tibetan Buddhist symbols, including a Wheel of Dharma, a lotus, and the Three Jewels.
According to government sources, none of the criteria listed in related government documents on sects discuss theology; they only focus on the actions and the methods of the groups.
Request by the Church of Scientology to start proceedings against the publisher was rejected by the Supreme Court.
He also worked in the Klamath Basin on drug and alcohol recovery issues, where he was able to reconnect with his heritage and culture.
Most bishops and popes were trained lawyers rather than theologians, and much of the Christian thought of this period became little more than an extension of law.
The book claims that these Quran verses embody one of the main themes of the book: "Nor have these passages been culled at random from different chapters of the Quran with a view to making the book sound sinister.
Despite having historical roots as a Christian missions organization, Stefanus Alliance International in awarding the Stefanus Prize has recognized the efforts of individuals across different faiths.
Full text Promulgated in the name of the other official members of the Tetrarchy, the edict marked the end of persecutions against the Christians.
48pp Challenges to Shechita and its Protection by Government and Legislation in Late 20th Century Britain Neville Kesselman Kenneth Collins Abstract: A Community on Trial: The Aberdeen Shechita Case, 1893 Anti-Semitism without Hatred?
All associations must have a religious purpose, including: a creed, regular worship services, the conducting of religious education.
The opposition to the laws led to judicial proceedings against the bishop and to a fine, which was, however, at once remitted by the Emperor.
IHP+ mobilizes national governments, development agencies, civil society, and others to support a single, country-led national health strategy in a well-coordinated way.
I hope people who don't like the little film will still think about the big issue and try to do something about it." Withdrawal of sponsors Several sponsors withdrew their support of 10:10 as a result of the No Pressure film.
This, the report explained, could be solved by optimizing usage of these sources by switching from coal to gas, by preventing methane leakages, and by stopping routine flaring.
He was previously involved in deals to sell Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine at a premium during the COVID 19 pandemic.
Stark resigned after three months to take up a role in government and was replaced by COO Michael Rea.
In July 2021, permits were being handed out for free rather than auctioned, and the market price per tonne of CO2e was around RMB 50, roughly half of the EU ETS and the UK ETS but better compared to the US, which has no formal cap-and-trade program.
Internal prices also typically rise with national GDP, company size (number of employees), and quality of corporate governance (number of independent board members and percentage of female board members).
History South Pole was founded in 2006 by graduates of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) including Patrick Bürgi, Thomas Camerata, Renat Heuberger, Ingo Puhl, and Christoph Sutter, and joined by Christoph Grobbel, Marco Hirsbrunner, and Christian Dannecker as equal partners.
“Embodied carbon refers to the carbon footprint associated with building materials, from cradle to grave," and can be quantified as a part of environmental impact using life-cycle assessment (LCA).
Addressing the growing demand for reliable and detailed information on emissions trading worldwide, ICAP developed an interactive ICAP ETS Map, which offers an up-to-date overview of existing ETSs.
Credit-level integrity: development of threshold standards intended to raise credit quality, including through the proposed Core Carbon Principles.
Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund A third option would be for companies to pay $15 for every tonne over their reduction target.
This enabled the company to develop over 700 CDM projects located in 45 countries and using 50 technologies.
Secretary of State, personally called officials in different countries to threaten financial penalties and other penalties.
The Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (ICVCM) is an independent governance body that publishes the Core Carbon Principles (CCPs) and related guidance intended to define high-level integrity criteria for carbon credits used in the voluntary carbon market.
taxiformis in vertical, near-shore land-based tanks, using seawater to provide the proper temperature and nutrients.
Ontario Following the election of a Progressive Conservative Party government under Doug Ford in the 2018 Ontario general election, Ontario cancelled its participation in the Western Climate Initiative cap-and-trade system.
In March 2019, Chancellor Merkel formed a "climate cabinet" to find a consensus on new emissions reduction measures to meet 2030 targets.
As of 2025 a law has been passed but allowances not yet decided, and it has not yet clear whether the country will join the Cooperative Mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.
Benefits The carbon market in India seeks the following benefits: Improves agricultural practices and social communities through emission reductions to improve their source of income through the voluntary credit market.
Pan, Y.; Birdsey, R.; Fang, J.; Hougton, R.; Kauppi, P.; Kurz, W.; Phillips, O.; Shvidenko, A.; Canadell, J.; Ciais, P.; Jackson, R.; Lewis, S.; McGuire, D.; Pacala, S.; Piao, S.; Rautiainen, A.; Sitch, S.; Hayes, D.
ART is governed by an independent advisory board, while daily operations are managed by the ART Secretariat, hosted by Winrock International.
Media coverage The launch of the PopOffsets project on 3 December 2009 received international media coverage from both print and broadcast media outlets, including in The Guardian, The Times, The Sunday Express, The Telegraph, Reuters, BBC and Channel 4.
For example, under Premier Blaine Higgs, the New Brunswick Attorney General submitted his intention to intervene in Saskatchewan's court challenge of the federal government's carbon pricing plan.
REPs are incentives for homeowners, farmers, businesses, etc., to become producers of renewable energy, or to increase their production of renewable energy.
Developing countries did take on obligations under the Protocol, but these were unquantified and allowed climate change to be addressed as part of wider national policies on sustainable development.
The Program of Activities (PoA) under the Clean Development Mechanism is regarded a precedor of a future NAMA mechanism and already operational.
Despite their contribution to the construction industry and the generation of jobs, artisanal brick producers largely operate informally and are generally excluded from social, environmental and economic public policies.
In it, Stern discusses the effect of global warming on the world economy, and states that climate change is the greatest and widest-ranging market failure ever seen, presenting a unique challenge for economics.
Presidential decree N° 7.390 of 2010 The decree specifies how Brazil quantifies greenhouse emissions, how it will achieve the reduction, and a legal requirement for estimating annual emissions.
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
VAT fraud In 2009 Europol informed that 90% market volume of emissions trading in some countries could be the result of tax fraud, more specifically missing trader fraud, costing governments more than 5 billion euros.
A comprehensive study, published in Energy Policy in 2013, reported that Germany's nuclear power phase-out, to be complete by 2022, is contradictory to the goal of the climate portion of the program.
The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 (asp 12) is an act of the Scottish Parliament concerning the setting of emissions reductions targets and certain other matters.
sanfordiana, is a species of red algae, with cosmopolitan distribution in tropical to warm temperate waters.
Jeff Huang is assistant chairman of Tianjin Climate Exchange and vice-president of Chicago Climate Exchange.
It has also supported results-based payments: a pilot programme for REDD+ results-based payments ran from 2017 to 2022, and in October 2024 the GCF Board adopted a policy establishing REDD+ results-based payments as a permanent funding window within the Fund.
The annual cost of compliance is estimated to be $177 million - or less than one-tenth of one per cent of Alberta's nominal GDP ($242 billion in 2006).
Among the regulations outlined in the plan were initiatives to increase natural disaster preparedness, create and improve existing hospitals, and modernize infrastructure to withstand better extreme weather.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSJTKyDuI6I Explanatory Film - The Climate Action Plan: Successful climate action has to be a cooperative undertaking.
In the first scene, a bright and chirpy schoolteacher, played by Lyndsey Marshal, tells her class about the 10:10 campaign, and asks what they are doing to reduce their carbon footprint.
This included a joint FCPF/UN-REDD template for Readiness Preparation Proposals (R-PPs) and joint guidance on stakeholder engagement in REDD+ readiness.
An emissions reduction currency, by contrast, is purely an incentive for behaviour change by individuals or groups.
The third phase of CERT (previously known as Energy Efficiency Commitment 3) originally ran from 2008 to 2011 and increased the previous targets to 154 MtC.
Examples Venice The city of Venice serves as an example of how a modern city can function without cars.
It provides a platform for governments to share their practical experiences and the latest knowledge on ETS.
Simpson Grierson considered that the key findings of the review were that: the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report represents a consensus on scientific evidence, and should underpin New Zealand's policy.
There have been efforts in the past to organize subnational governments to address climate change most notably through the Cities for Climate Protection Program - an effort associated with the International Union of Local Authorities and the United Nations Environment Programme.
Voluntary Emission Reductions or Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are a type of carbon offset exchanged in the voluntary or over-the-counter market for carbon credits.
In 2005, EcoSecurities Group Plc was listed in the London Stock Exchange, raising capital for an expansion drive that resulted in offices in 33 countries run by over 350 employees.
Such cuts will require "a significant contribution by the electrification of new cars and should have priority".
It described this as a shared data layer linking registry identifiers and transaction status so credits could be traced consistently as they move between accounts and intermediaries.
Incentivize the sustainable use of degraded land and ecosystems, and remove incentives that encourage forest destruction.
The programme now operates in the United Kingdom, Australia, Chile, United Arab Emirates as well as New Zealand.
In the 2015 Autumn Statement, the Chancellor, George Osborne, announced that an additional £225 million budget for automotive research and development would be facilitated by the APC.
Goods leaving the US for sale in a country without a carbon price would be reimbursed that fee at the border.
Examples of each category are as follows: Forest Management Rotation extensions: Allowing trees to grow for longer periods to increase carbon absorption.
Assigned amount units were issued up to the level of initial "assigned amount" of an Annex 1 Party to the Kyoto Protocol.
During Trump's second term in office, the office was re-established under the name "Office of Coal".
Such emissions should be reduced as far as possible by developing new processes and replacing old ones – or through the use of carbon capture and utilization (CCU) or carbon capture and storage (CCS).
Other names included Liberian peace activist and advocate for women's rights, Leymah Gbowee, and Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian playwright, novelist and poet.
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
The Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets also known as Climate Coalition, was created during the United Nations Climate Conference 2025 COP30 in Belém, Brazil.
It believes that the crisis of climate change requires a national economic effort on the scale of the American mobilization of the home front during World War II, in order to transform the USA economy speedily.
The emissions from 2,500 hours of driving one standard diesel vehicle produces about 150 litres of ink.
Results As of November 2014, 28 schools had raised enough money for solar panels, and 27 schools had installed them through the scheme.
Members noted that the experiences in Panama provided valuable lessons for other REDD+ countries and highlighted the importance of strong stakeholder engagement processes.
In the second phase of the Energy Efficiency Commitment (2005–2008) scheme, energy saving targets were raised to 130 TWh suppliers, and here suppliers with at least 50,000 domestic customers (including affiliated licenses) were eligible for an obligation.
Emissions figures from the 2010–11 financial year suggest the electricity generation sector may be due to pay around A$3.9 billion.
By April 2014, Willauer's team had not yet made fuel to the standard required by military jets, but they were able in September 2013 to use the fuel to fly a radio-controlled model airplane powered by a common two-stroke internal combustion engine.
A 1995 report compared converting vehicle fleets for the use of carbon-neutral methanol with the further synthesis of gasoline.
The fall of the Soviet Union led to massive restructuring and deindustrialization of many of the former Soviet Bloc.
In the United States, most carbon dioxide (98 percent) is emitted as a result of the combustion of fossil fuels; consequently, carbon dioxide emissions and energy use are highly correlated.
The rationale behind a meta registry is to maintain transparency and prevent double counting and double issuance.
The first four companies to receive the Water Standard were Sainsbury's, Coca-Cola, Sunlight Services Group and Branston.
In March 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially nullify Obama's Clean Power Plan in an effort, it said, of reviving the coal industry.
See also Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit Removal Units Voluntary Emissions Reduction Flexible mechanisms List of Kyoto Protocol signatories == References ==
Observers of the accord are Indiana, Ohio, and South Dakota, as well as the Canadian Province of Ontario.
The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation modification (SRM).
Proponents of Renewable Energy Payments argue that this policy has proven to stimulate local economies, innovation and small business growth because in its truest form REP's put everyone, whether small business, individual, or farmers on an equal footing with large commercial titans of industry.
The purpose of GCC methodology is to make them user friendly, and simple where possible, without compromising with their environmental integrity.
History The Alliance was launched by Canada and the UK at the COP23 climate summit in November 2017.
The report consisted of minority reports from the New Zealand Labour Party, the Green Party, the Māori Party and the ACT Party.
Before its release, The Guardian described it as "attention-grabbing" and "pretty edgy." The film was withdrawn from public circulation by 10:10, on the same day it was released, due to negative publicity.
Main methods Alkaline Electrolyzers (AE): A mature and cost-effective technology used primarily for large-scale, steady hydrogen production.
See also CEB VER Verified Carbon Standard CDM Gold Standard Certified Emission Reduction == References ==
In 2013, the Fluid Interfaces research group, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology demonstrated the process of converting carbon residue into ink for use in an inkjet cartridge.
Then-Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, expressed at ICAP's founding ceremony: "This first-of-its-kind partnership will provide more incentives for clean-tech investment and economic growth while not letting polluters off the hook.
President Bill Clinton signed the agreement in November 1998, but the US Senate refused to ratify it, citing potential damage to the US economy required by compliance.
Verified Emission Reductions are usually created by projects which have been verified outside of the Kyoto Protocol.
Main findings Renewable energy can contribute to "social and economic development, energy access, secure energy supply, climate change mitigation, and the reduction of negative environmental and health impacts".
Hydrogen power In 2009, Japan fitted over 100,000 homes with hydrogen powered fuel cells, improving its hydrogen powered infrastructure.
The Carbon Trust also initiated work on new and emerging low carbon technologies using a range of programmes and measures including traditional research, development, and demonstration support to supporting early stage companies developing new technologies and practices.
However, if a country was not able to meet their obligation, their target would get added to their next commitment period.
Critical climate change experts decry these credits as a way for countries to buy their way out of taking action to address climate change.
At the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, a Bangladeshi delegate told reporters that Bangladesh might let the World Bank manage the funds, if that was set as a condition by funders.
CO2balance adheres to a profit for purpose approach, whereby revenue from the sale of carbon credits is used to maintain projects over the long term and reinvested into new project development.
Samuele Landi, an Italian businessman convicted of fraudulent bankruptcy who lived as a fugitive until his death at sea in 2024, was listed as an advisor to Blue Carbon.
REDD (2005–2007) REDD was first discussed in 2005 under the UNFCCC at its 11th session of the Conference of the Parties after Papua New Guinea and Costa Rica, on behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, submitted the proposal on reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries.
The association manages exclosures (land protected from grazing) with the intent of improving the ecosystem and sequestering carbon.
Features The carbon market in India includes multiple features: A system of trading to buy and sell credits permitting an industrial unit to emit a specific amount of greenhouse gas.
The aim is to create a "durable institutional architecture—aligning climate ambition with economic competitiveness." == References ==
Course 50 is encouraging innovation in technology towards more effective CO2 capturing polymers, as well as temperature reduction and improved efficiency of blast furnaces in the steel industrious.
As of June 2019, five provinces and two territories are under the federal pricing system for one or both aspects of pollution pricing.
Alberta-based credits A facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 per cent target.
2015 Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project study The Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project (DDPP) aims to demonstrate how countries can transform their energy systems by 2050 in order to achieve a low-carbon economy.
Clients get to use a specific CEMARS certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for product or service carboNZero certification is for organisations, products, services or events to make a carbon neutrality claim.
The Clean Air Act (1990) or Clean Air Act amendments of 1990 authorized the use of market-based approaches such as emission trading to assist states in attaining and maintaining air quality for all criteria pollutants.
Other French cities with a LEZ in operation include Grenoble, Lyon and Strasbourg Germany In Germany, an LEZ is called an environmental zone (Umweltzone).
A comprehensive, upstream, auctioned cap-and-trade system is very similar to a comprehensive, upstream carbon tax.
Working in coordination with public bodies to incorporate the artisanal brick production sector within the national climate change mitigation agenda.
Google violations On 22 April 2008, Ecocho was informed by Google that they would be denied the use of Google's search technologies for multiple past violations of Google's policies.
It is normally mined underground before being transported to power stations, or export shipping terminals.
The revenue that would be collected would be 100% returned as a monthly or annual payment to every American household.
This strategy focuses on the availability and use of alternative modes of transportation to driving as well as reducing the emissions associated with driving.
The application is designed to meet the new requirements of the EU ETS resulting from the 2008/101/CE Directive.
This comprised nearly €76 billion for initiatives related to power grids, energy efficiency, and renewable energy throughout Europe and other parts of the world.
Sandbag was re-branded as Ember in 2020 with a focus on the global power sector, while a separate Brussels-based organisation was established to continue work on the ETS.
Market role ART has been closely associated with the LEAF Coalition, which uses TREES-certified credits in its purchase arrangements and became a major buyer of jurisdictional TREES credits.
The negative market response was concentrated among EU companies subject to the CBAM with low profit margins.
A Clean Air Task Force (CATF) study investigated public health benefits arising from the RGGI states' shift to cleaner power generation.
Funding The funds gathered from online donations were distributed between rights-based family planning schemes, contraceptive services and supplies, sex and relationship education and health programs.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
In the Uniform Price scenario with a price of 50 dollars per ton of CO2, for 5 countries the revenue can represent more than 1% of the overall governmental revenue.
The bill aimed to make the use of non-fossil fuel sources mandatory for energy and encourage feedstocks like green ammonia, green hydrogen, ethanol and biomass.
Negotiations The IMO Net-Zero Framework (NZF) was drafted by Marine Environment Protection Committee Meeting 83 (MEPC83) and was initially scheduled for adoption by the IMO at an extraordinary meeting in October 2025.
The report also proposed shared data fields and protocols intended to be broadly accessible, framing common data infrastructure as a way to increase transparency and oversight as trading volumes grew.
Among those emitters to which it applied, emissions were significantly lower after introduction of the tax.
The refund is paid in biannual installments for residential customers and monthly for small businesses.
The Stern Report shows that the overall cost of strong early action is much less than the cost of inaction.
There is no legal requirement for organisations to act on or implement any of the recommendations made in the report.
In January 2018, Yasa, an electric motor manufacturer based in Oxford, England, opened a new factory to produce 100,000 motors per year, using APC funding.
The program reduced expenditures on medicine by about 1.5% ($800 million annually) and reduced the mortality rate by up to 0.5% (2,200 fewer premature deaths, mainly among individuals 75 and older).
The Initial IMO GHG Strategy lists criteria to assess impacts on States, and MEPC 74 approved a procedure for assessing impacts on States of candidate measures.
The scheme required entities which emit over 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent greenhouse gases per year, and which were not in the transport or agriculture sectors, to obtain emissions permits, called carbon units.
The mixed reactions from users can be seen in the blog comments, some taking further action by complaining to Google, and others agreeing with Google.
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
On 14 September 2009, the National Government announced that it had reached an agreement with the Māori Party about revisions to the NZ ETS.
It is also supported by companies including Microsoft, Pepsico, First Solar, American Wind Energy Association, Exxon Mobil, BP, and General Motors.
He lectured on aviation operations and management for Golden Gate University, and on aeronautics at Sierra Academy of Aeronautics, a school for professional pilots.
James Card (October 25, 1915 – January 16, 2000) was an American film preservationist who established the motion picture collection at George Eastman House, one of the major moving image archives in the United States.
Günther Theischinger (born 21 February 1940) is an Austrian entomologist who has specialized in dragonflies (Odonata) and other aquatic insects.
The exhibition used performance, photography, collage, video and sound installation to explore biomythography and non-traditional archiving.
In 2016 the English-language portal "The Culture Trip" included her in the list of "8 most influential women in Central Asian and Caucasian art".
He became a father figure to Marceline, protecting her from mutants and gifting her the stuffed animal Hambo, which became her most prized possession.
In 2019, Kholeif co-curated the 14th Sharjah Biennial: Leaving the Echo Chamber with curators, Zoe Butt and Claire Tancons.
After leaving junior high school in 1944, Karwemera enrolled at Nyakasura Vernacular Teacher Training College qualifying as a teacher of vernacular.
Malraux eventually reinstated Langlois after intense debate on 22 April, while reducing museum funding.
Art Gallery of Ontario Nanibush began work at the Art Gallery of Ontario in 2016 as an assistant curator of Canadian and Indigenous Art in the department of Canadian art.
The suppression and attempted erasure of many Indigenous languages is tied to settler colonial practices of assimilation of Indigenous peoples.
In 2011, Uranchimeg curated Modern Mongolia: From Steppe to Urban Dynamics, an exhibition of more than twenty, contemporary Mongolian artists at Hanart TZ Gallery in Hong Kong.
He was the former editor-in-chief of A Magazine Curated By and has served as a features editor of SSAW and Arena Homme + and has contributed to publications such Another, Architectural Digest, The Business of Fashion, Interview, New York Magazine The Cut, L'Uomo Vogue, Vogue, and Wallpaper.
Ongoing funding is uncertain as CSHD must compete with larger demining NGOs such as Mines Advisory Group and Halo Trust.
Awards and honors Ledoux received the Erasmus Prize, a Dutch award for contributions to art in 1988.
Edgardo Cozarinsky's 1994 documentary Citizen Langlois is an essayistic biography showing Langlois' progress from amateur collector to nouvelle vague hero and friend of the stars.
Her latest work, Piniartorsuit kinguaavi, was also nominated for the Nordic Council prize in 2013, though she lost to the Danish-Norwegian author Kim Leine.
In addition to selecting works, the curator is often responsible for writing labels, catalog essays, and other content supporting exhibitions.
The family settled in Yokohama when she was 12 and she entered the Ferris Girls' School, to study the English language.
He studied at Universidad Central de Venezuela, New School University, and holds a Master's in Interactive Telecommunications from New York University.
Njabala Foundation Kazungu founded the Njabala Foundation, a nonprofit organization that promotes the visibility of women artists through exhibitions, research initiatives, residencies, and mentorship programmes.
Hogue was recognized for her curatorial work in 2019 with an Award for Emerging Curator of Contemporary Canadian Art by the Hnatyshyn Foundation.
Countess Anna Sarah Maria Brigitte Elisabeth Lily Henckel von Donnersmarck (born 6 March 1973), known professionally as Anna Henckel-Donnersmarck, is a German filmmaker and film curator.
He received first prize for the "largest and best collection of stuffed birds and quadrupeds of Nova Scotia, with popular and scientific names".
Kashiko Kawakita introduced him to Yasujirō Ozu and was his sponsor when he applied for permanent residency in Japan.
from the University of Chicago, and attended the Whitney Museum Independent Study Program from 2002 to 2003.
In 2023, upon seeing his work on view in the National Gallery of Canada due to his Governor General's Award, he said that Métis art was lacking in the building and asked that the Métis should have more representation.
One of his artistic creations is the Black Box, a time capsule in the form of a book which documents over 25 years of "Plexus International" artistic activity.
Titles in the series follow the player character as they live in a village populated by anthropomorphic animals, with gameplay that proceeds in a nonlinear fashion and in-game events that occur in real-time.
you see him suffering as a consequence of the murders he has committed and that is when [his] humanity comes through.
Since 1994, he has been the curator of the Dead Sea Scrolls collection and the director of the Shrine of the Book at the Israel Museum, where he promoted the platform that displays the scrolls online for the world.
Early life and education Isaac is of Ojibway and British descent and is a member of Sagkeeng First Nation.
Silversword attacks Superboy and Green Lantern, and before they can react, seemingly pushes them to their deaths into a volcano.
Biography Garneau was born in Edmonton, Alberta and having a mother who was an artist, always made art.
The Alexandrian Project aimed to build a new main library building using computers and electronic resources more than books.
She co-curated the exhibition Making Doha 1950-2030 at the National Museum of Qatar, which used archival material, oral history and photographs to explore the architectural history of the city.
In 2013 she published a book titled The Legacies of Jean-Luc Godard (WLU Press) along with Douglas Morrey and Nicole Cote.
John Eni-Ibukun (born 13 June 1997), also known as June Sometimes, is a Nigerian artist, writer, and the Head of Curation for Afrobeats and African Gospel at Audiomack.
While Archives 2.0 may refer to implementing new technologies, it is also a way of engaging with archives in an effort to promote openness and flexibility of archival materials.
Works Among his published books, A Day At Qumran: The Dead Sea Sect and Its Scrolls, published by The Israel Museum, Jerusalem (1998), stands out.
He served as the Asia bureau chief for THR until August 2013, when Clifford Coonan took over the role, and became a senior film reviewer for THR.
Significant works of translation include Vinterbørn by Dea Trier Mørch and Århundradets kärlekssaga by Märta Tikkanen.
The work of Stojanova is mainly focused on Canadian multicultural cinema, Eastern European cinema and German cinema during the war.
Some of these include Móvil, an exhibition and performance by Guatemalan artist Regina José Galindo at the Museo de Arte Contemporáneo (MUAC) and UNAM’s independence bi-centenary celebration project: The Ghost of Liberty, México 2010.
Graduates with PhDs usually become teaching faculty in schools of library and information science, or sometimes occupy the directorship or deanship of university libraries.
She has curated several art exhibitions in Bangalore, India and has worked with pioneering artists like S.G.Vasudev , Yusuf Arakkal and Balan Nambiar [2].
Barakat's artwork is found in museum collections, including at the British Museum in London; Umm al-Fahm Art Gallery in Umm al-Fahm, Israel; and the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts in Amman.
Hagemeyer also constructed a manual of resources for Deaf people and those associated with them called The Red Notebook, which is now online at the website of the Friends of Libraries for Deaf Action.
Yefimovich co-founded "The Archive Magazine," an Israeli platform dedicated to promoting and showcasing documentary photography.
Paramesh Krishnan Nair (6 April 1933 – 4 March 2016) was an Indian film archivist and film scholar, who was the founder and director of the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) in 1964.
She is thus closest to Terry Smith’s contemporaneous insistence on the intellectual seriousness of art criticism, requiring attention to structure, temporality, and contexts of meaning in modern and postmodern art, though she is less theoretical, meta-critical or programmatic than Smith.
Givanni has served on film juries at African film festivals such as FESPACO (from 1985), Zanzibar Festival of the Dhow Countries, the All Africa Film Awards in South Africa, the JCCarthage and others.
Education Redler-Hawes has a degree in Fine art Painting from Norwich University of the Arts 1989 - 1991 and a second degree in Curating from the Royal College of Art 1994 - 1996.
The inaugural award was bestowed on Margaret Myers, Director, Office of Library Personnel Resources of the American Library Association in 1984.
As Barry spent the war years going to the cinema, when she wrote her book Let's go to the pictures (1926), she explicitly stated: "Going to the pictures is nothing to be ashamed of" (p.
She has been working with new media, performance, and interdisciplinary arts for more than 30 years.
Crandall and his team rode out a storm for six days before they were rescued, and he arrived back in New York after a 44-day voyage, having not lost a single specimen.
DE librarians also assist faculty with designing course-specific web-pages and provide copyright advisement.
Dixon left Carnegie Museum of Art in 1975, and William Judson, a film professor at the University of Pittsburgh, succeeded her as curator.
Career Artwork Rafiee embarked on her career as an artist in 2001, when she participated in a group exhibition in Tehran.
He appears in the video game Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine (1999) in the secret level "Return to Peru", where Indiana returns to the same temple and finds the second idol.
His paleontological research led to his work on the fossil birds Palaeochenoides mioceanus and Nesotrochis debooyi.
While editor of The American Archivist she emphasized technical rather than scholarly issues, believing that archival records were useful in ways other than scholarly research.
Black Radical Imagination Black Radical Imagination is an international film program founded by Erin Christovale and Amir George.
Dennis Lim is a New York-based film curator and critic who has served as the artistic director of the New York Film Festival, since 2020.
Early life and education Âhasiw Maskêgon-Iskwêw (Donald Ghostkeeper) was born in 1958 in McLennan, Alberta.
Biography Born in Portsmouth, in Saint John Parish, Dominica, Lennox Honychurch can trace his lineage in the Caribbean back to the 1790s.
Adrian Stimson: Maanipokaa'iini at Remai Modern (April 2 to September 4, 2022) was the first survey exhibition of this Siksika Nation artist, and was accompanied by a monograph publication.
On Gadot's casting as Wonder Woman, Snyder said "Wonder Woman is arguably one of the most powerful female characters of all time and a fan favorite in the DC Universe.
In 2002, she co-founded the Master's Program in Curatorial Practice at the California College of the Arts (CCA) in San Francisco, the first program of its kind on the West Coast.
Pele's attack devastates much of the countryside and brings harm to many Hawaiians, making Silversword realize how evil the goddess is.
Between 2019 and 2023, she was an associate professor of Indigenous art history at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, where she held the University Research Chair in Indigenous Circumpolar Arts.
He has written a book about the work of South Korean filmmaker Hong Sang-soo, which was published in 2022, and a book on David Lynch, published in 2015.
He attended school in Willowmore until the age of 13, completed his primary education at Wesbank Primary School in Oudtshoorn, and later moved with his family to Uniondale, where he attended Uniondale High School from 2000 onward.
Doctor O's inner world was left to bare in a collaboration with Turner-prize nominated artist, Heather Phillipson, entitled, My Life in the Metaverse.
Her work also extends to festival direction, workshops, and conferences speaking on Ugandan arts and heritage.
In November 1948, Card joined the staff of the newly created George Eastman House with the initial title of "assistant to the curator", who was Beaumont Newhall.
Curatorial and arts administration Maskêgon-Iskwêw maintained an active curatorial practice across Canada.
The exhibition received an Award for Excellence from the Association of Art Museum Curators in 2023.
Biography Daina graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design (ECUAD) in 2003 and gained an MA Critical and Curatorial Studies from the University of British Columbia in 2012.
Archivists process the records physically by placing them in acid-free folders and boxes to ensure their long-term survival.
1959 The Wonderful World of the Air (Garden City Books) 1960 Nature: Earth, Plants, Animals (Macdonald) with Julian Huxley.
In 2018, Igloliorte was also appointed curatorial lead for the inaugural exhibition at the Inuit Art Centre at the Winnipeg Art Gallery.
In June 2017, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in literature by Kabale University for promoting culture.
Elvira Espejo Ayca (born 1981) is an Indigenous Bolivian artist, poet, and the director of the National Museum of Ethnography and Folklore in La Paz until 2020.
In 1955, Card discovered Louise Brooks living as a recluse in New York City and persuaded her to move to Rochester, New York, to be near the George Eastman House.
Wetmore is commemorated in the scientific names of one species and two subspecies of reptiles: Pholidoscelis wetmorei, Uromacer frenatus wetmorei, and Anolis brevirostris wetmorei.
This stewardship is usually outside the acceptance of authority figures, hence the guerrilla or underground nature of the action taken.
Selected curatorial projects Located in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver, British Columbia, Hogue co-founded Gam Gallery in 2009, an exhibition space and artist studio that operated until 2019.
In the 2022 New Year Honours, Māhina-Tuai was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to cultures and the arts.
The Collector re-appeared when the Avengers fought Thane Ector and the Brethren, who were noted to have escaped from the Collector's collection.
This prestigious grande école (literally, "grand schools") offers a diploma in "Archivist-Paleography", created in 1849, after a three-year curriculum.
References External links ArCHIAM: Decoration and Construction of Omani Traditional Architecture National Museum (Oman): Our Staff YouTube: Magan and Copper - National Museum of Oman
During this period Barakat began to work with materials such as local clay (and he added hay for consistency), wood and fire.
He appears in the second half of the episode Young Indiana Jones and the Curse of the Jackal (later edited into the second half of the film Spring Break Adventure), where he encounters a 16-year-old Indiana Jones in Mexico.
As a result, the following year, he was appointed a professor at the new Princely Academy of Saint Sava in Bucharest.
In 2024, she was a speaker for the exhibition GAUGUIN’S WORLD: Tōna Iho, Tōna Ao at the National Gallery of Australia (Canberra), in connection with the Savage Klub and its founder Rosanna Raymond, and supported the participation of Tahitian artist Tahe Drollet.
"The Latin American Spirit: Art and Artists in the United States" (Co-written), English, also available in Spanish, Bronx Museum of the Arts/Harry Abrams, New York, U.S.A., 1989.
The same year, Christensen also developed a short film series to tell the stories of small rural communities across southern Alberta and Saskatchewan, The Grasslands Project.
In 2015, Christensen produced Guy Maddin and Evan Johnson's feature, The Forbidden Room, and the feature documentary Hadwin's Judgement, based in part on John Vaillant's book The Golden Spruce about Grant Hadwin.
Stirbei donated two paintings from his own collection to start the gallery; one by Gheorghe Tattarescu, who was studying in Rome, and one by Petre Alexandrescu.
She previously studied for a BA degree in Heritage and Cultural Studies from Curtin University (formally known as Western Australian Institute of Technology) in Perth.
Here, Kholeif was "charged with overseeing the foundation's acquisition strategy, developing exhibitions and other programming, and securing international partnerships".
The first consecutive screenings took place in 2013 in Los Angeles, New York, and Chicago between Feb-May.
He noted the need for Wikipedia to strengthen partnerships with museums to create the most up-to-date and accurate information, saying "we are doing the same thing for the same reason, for the same people, in the same medium.
Paradoxically, these final works are bolder, more confident, broader, than anything Klee had done before.
Several taxa of birds have been named in his honor, including the Cretaceous genus Alexornis and the tanagers Wetmorethraupis sterrhopteron and Buthraupis wetmorei.
Designed as a playspace for children, its design was inspired by modernist buildings in the country, including Qatar Post, Qatar University, the Sheraton Grand Doha Resort & Convention Hotel, Qatar National Theatre and the Qatar Ministry of Information building.
He later attended Joseph Ayo Babalola University, Osun State, where he completed his tertiary education, graduating in November 2024.
Silversword joins Superboy and Green Lantern and attacks Pele, but is badly damaged by her lava attacks.
In this way, Martín created a process where Mexican artistic production gradually began to be intertwined with the international art scene.
His father, Arturo Angel Vallejo, was manager of the Pan American Life Insurance Company in Medellin, Colombia.
As an art curator and impresario, he is the founder of Plexus International, an international cooperative arts organizations whose participants have included Butch Morris, Lorenzo Pace, Miguel Algarin, William Parker, Shalom Neuman, and Stephen DiLauro.
After receiving an Aboriginal Curatorial Collective Residency to work with grunt gallery in Vancouver, British Columbia in 2000, Daina remained at the gallery as associate curator and administrator until 2009.
References External links David Christensen at IMDb War Hospital at the National Film Board of Canada
Sandro Dernini (born 1949 in Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy) is an Italian visual artist, curator, and biochemist.
Nanibush has been an active community organizer participating in demonstrations against the Iraq War and uranium processing, and raising awareness about the relationship between racism and lack of education.
From 2016 to 2018 he was the director of The Palestinian Museum in Birzeit (25 km north of Jerusalem), which was officially inaugurated in May 2016.
Career Throughout 2003 Ooi worked on a number of regional projects in various capacities with institutions and galleries in Southeast Asia focusing mainly on Malaysian, Indonesian and Filipino contemporary art.
As part of the role, Nanibush created a new Indigenous Curator position and co heads the department with Georgiana Uhlyarik, the curator of Canadian Art.
However, some concerns have always intrigued me, and those are related to man's behavior, socio-culturally speaking...I think people can see that as a constant in my work throughout the many—and sometimes different stages...
During her tenure, as a consequence of the Sudanese Civil War, objects from the collections of the National Museum of Sudan were stolen, and some were found being sold on at the border with, and within, South Sudan.
He wrote, among others, for The Village Voice, Vice, Variety, Vanity Fair, LA Weekly, Indiewire, Filmmaker Magazine, GreenCine Daily (editor from 2009 to 2013), and Spin.
In other media Television The Collector appears in Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., voiced by Jeff Bennett.
Li was among the Hong Kong film critics who signed Edward Yang's Taiwan Film Manifesto, which marked the beginning of the Taiwan New Cinema.
The exhibition, co-sponsored by the Metropolitan Museum and the City Center of Music and Drama in New York, showed seventy films dating from the medium's first seventy-five years on thirty-five consecutive evenings from July 29 to September 3, 1970.
He was approached by the princess of the Tengu world Nyotengu, proving his might as a man who ended Bankotsubo’s crime, sparring her and tells her to leave human world, satisfying her as well.
Baduarius (Greek: Βαδουάριος) is a figure of 6th century Constantinople, known only from a single inscription in an epitaph.
In 2001, he translated American film theorist David Bordwell's Planet Hong Kong: Popular Cinema and the Art of Entertainment into Chinese, after the two had befriended each other in 1995 during Bordwell's visit to the HKIFF.
Their editorial suggested that physicians should be delegating their information needs to informationists, just as they currently order CT scans from radiologists or cardiac catheterizations from cardiologists.
In 2017, Nanibush and Georgiana Uhlyarik renamed the department of Canadian Art, the department of Indigenous and Canadian Art, and developed a new nation to nation model of sharing power.
Variable coloration by chromatophores Chromatophores are special pigment-containing cells that may change their size, but more often retain their original size but allow the pigment within them to become redistributed, thus varying the colour and pattern of the animal.
However some of these species undergo morphological color change over their lifetimes, growing to be a gold or white color pattern as an adult.
It concludes by urging readers to compare the book with Darwin's Descent of Man and with Wallace's Darwinism.
Evidently, alarm signals promote survival by allowing the receivers of the alarm to escape from the source of peril; this can evolve by kin selection, assuming the receivers are related to the signaller.
Some studies suggest that the northern shrike (Lanius excubitor) sings in winter often imitating small passerines that may be preyed upon when lured within reach.
The fungus obtains nutrition from carbohydrates on the egg's surface, without harming the egg itself.
The potential host (or prey) drives away its parasite (or predator) by mimicking it, the reverse of host–parasite aggressive mimicry.
These genes are the transcription factor Distalless (Dll) and the ligand (a signalling substance that binds a cell surface receptor) Hedgehog (Hh).
At least six species of horned lizards are able to squirt an aimed stream of blood from the corners of their eyes, up to 5 feet (1.5 m).
The insects have historically been eaten by Native Americans, who fried them or roasted them in hot ovens, stirring them until they were well browned.
They found that if larvae from an existing population of black mutants were raised at 20˚C, then all the final instar larvae were black; but if the larvae were instead raised at 28˚C, the final instar larvae ranged in color from black to green.
In many chromodorid nudibranchs, they take in distasteful and toxic chemicals emitted from sponges and store them in their repugnatorial glands (located around the mantle edge).
Researchers found that frequencies of Tf alleles of the Siberian reindeer differed from all the others.
Not all amphibians which display unkenreflexes possess aposematic coloring, nor do all amphibians display unkenreflex to the same degree.
He noted a case in the European nightjar, when a bird led him around the nest several times but made no attempt to lure him away.
This species, and others in its genus, have been extensively studied for understanding the genetic basis for polymorphism and Batesian mimicry.
"The palatability of the eggs of birds: illustrated by three seasons' experiments (1947, 1948 and 1950) on the food preferences of the Rat (Rattus norvegicus); and with special reference to the protective adaptations of eggs considered in relation to vulnerability".
Two different species of milkweed bug in the family Hemiptera, Lygaeus kalmii and large milkweed bug (Oncopeltus fasciatus), are colored with bright orange and black, and are said to be aposematically colored, in that they "advertise" their distastefulness by being brightly colored.
The ghillie suit was developed by Scottish gamekeepers for hunting deer, and adapted initially by a Scottish Highland regiment, the Lovat Scouts, for military use.
European grass snake (Natrix natrix), which secretes blood from the lining of the mouth while playing dead.
Volvation (from Latin volvere "roll", and the suffix -(a)tion; sometimes called enrolment or conglobation) is a defensive behavior of certain animals in which the animal rolls its body into a ball, presenting only the hardest parts of its integument (the animal's "armor") or its spines to predators.
In 2015–2016 studies, genome sequencing revealed a 240 kilobase haplotype encompassing the ALX1 gene that encodes a transcription factor affecting craniofacial development is strongly associated with beak shape diversity.
Such animals, like the tawny dragon lizard, may resemble rocks, sand, twigs, leaves, and even bird droppings (mimesis).
Nutritional rewards As long as natural enemies have some potential to be omnivorous, plants can provide food resources to encourage their retention and increase the impact they have on herbivore populations.
Intensity of display has been shown to decrease as the distance of the predator from the nest increases, perhaps representing the balancing of risk to the displaying parent and to the vulnerable young.
Animals may also use gaping as part of a courtship display, or to otherwise communicate with each other.
He continued to work from time to time after his retirement, for instance conducting a survey of crocodile nests on the Victoria Nile for the Uganda National Parks in 1972.
Alternatively, prey animals might be sufficiently gregarious to form clusters tight enough to enhance the warning signal.
A number of other aquatic molluscs have similar responses to attack, including the gastropod clade known as sea hares.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
It was Sheppard who found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
In his wartime lectures at Farnham Castle, he described nine categories of visual deception: merging, e.g.
There is also statistical evidence of change with time, based both on comparisons between sub-fossil and modern shells, and on resampling the same sites some decades apart, although the latter has more often found little change over the period (stasis).
Some species of caterpillar, such as those of hawkmoths (Sphingidae), have eyespots on their anterior abdominal segments.
Ultrasound avoidance in moths The idea that moths were able to hear the cries of echolocating bats dates back to the late 19th century.
Their calls differ based on signaller sex, threat type, habitat, and caller ontogenetic or lifetime predator experience.
Different pigmentation patterns provide appropriate camouflage throughout the seasons, as well as alter heat retention as temperatures change.
During the American Civil War, rifle units such as the Union army's 1st United States Sharpshooters wore green jackets while most Union units wore more conspicuous blue uniforms.
However, it currently remains unclear if any of the antitumor activity of squid ink can be obtained from oral consumption, and this is indicated as an area for future investigation.
Also, not only is polymorphism absent from these mimics, it is absent in the wasps also: these facts are presumably connected.
The females that change sex are often those who attain and preserve an initial size advantage early in life.
Assuming equal viability of the genotypes 1,209 heterozygotes would be expected, so the field results do not suggest any heterozygous advantage.
Species 1 therefore gains n-⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ = ⁠a2n/a1+a2⁠ and species 2 similarly gains ⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ in absolute numbers of individuals not killed.
While admiring of Poulton's detailed observations, Cope was critical of his support for Darwin, arguing that Poulton failed to explain how the variability that natural selection needs to work on actually arises.
Military prototypes Active camouflage in the form of counter-illumination has rarely been used for military purposes, but it has been prototyped in ship and aircraft camouflage from the Second World War onwards.
The offspring can inherit a dominant allele from one parent and a recessive allele from the other parent, making them heterozygous with a genotype of Bb.
Many tarantula species eject bristles from their abdomens, directing them toward potential attackers.
There are numerous possible mechanisms, of which the best known are: Batesian mimicry, where an edible species resembles a distasteful or dangerous species.
Hugh Bamford Cott (6 July 1900 – 18 April 1987) was a British zoologist, an authority on both natural and military camouflage, and a scientific illustrator and photographer.
The bamboo stem was found among fossil plant remains in the deposits of the Chirang River and was noted for its unusual surface markings and intact structure.
However, since polymorphisms may occur at low allele frequency, this is not a reliable way to tell new mutations from polymorphisms.
show that to establish adaptive self-deception, biologists must quantify the cost and benefit of ignoring one's true competitive ability.
Implemented most often in the face of an imminent attack by a predator, unkenreflex is characterized by the subject’s contortion or arching of its body to reveal previously hidden bright colors of the ventral side, tail, or inner limb; the subject remains immobile while in unkenreflex.
Besides experimental research, the comparative method can also be employed to investigate hypotheses such as those given by Curio above.
For ships Diffused lighting camouflage, in which visible light is projected on to the sides of ships to match the faint glow of the night sky, was trialled by Canada's National Research Council from 1941 onwards, and then by the Royal Navy, during the Second World War.
Hedgehog The Hedgehog (Hh) gene is the other element that has been functionally tested in the formation of eyespots.
In Müllerian mimicry, inedible species, usually within a taxonomic order, find it advantageous to resemble each other so as to reduce the sampling rate by predators who need to learn about the insects' inedibility.
Like Abbott Thayer, he used his artistry in his scientific work, including in Adaptive Coloration in Animals, to help argue the case he was making.
Since each parent must have a copy of the recessive allele in order to have an affected offspring, the parents are referred to as carriers of the condition.
Some termites (such as the soldiers of Globitermes sulphureus) release a sticky secretion by rupturing a gland near the skin of their neck, producing a tar effect in defense against ants.
Distraction displays Distraction displays, also known as deflection displays and diversionary displays, are behaviours that draw the attention of a predator away from an object, typically the nest or young.
Inspired by the evolution from genotype to genome to pan-genome, a concept of eventually exploring the relationship among pan-phenome, pan-genome, and pan-envirome was proposed in 2023.
He recorded that the Arctic fox, Arctic hare, ermine and ptarmigan change their colour seasonally, and gave "the obvious explanation", that it was for concealment.
If it resembled its surroundings like the members of the other class, it would be liable to a great deal of accidental or experimental tasting, and there would be nothing about it to impress the memory of an enemy, and thus to prevent the continual destruction of individuals.
There is currently not enough empirical data on the subject for there to be a consensus among experts.
Fossil description The bamboo stem shows rare preservation of structural features, including nodes, buds, and scars left by thorns.
Classification The family Dinidoridae is subdivided into two subfamilies: the Dinidorinae, and the Megymeninae, with the genus Megymenum in the latter.
One type produces sounds as acoustic aposematism, warning the bats that the moths are unpalatable, or at least performing as acoustic mimics of unpalatable moths.
Olfactory Some animals, in both terrestrial and aquatic environments, appear to camouflage their odor, which might otherwise attract predators.
Behavior around eggs Octopuses have also been observed squirting ink at snails or crabs approaching their eggs.
In reptiles and mammals Some reptiles, such as the sand lizard of Europe, have eyespots; in the sand lizard's case, there is a row of spots along the back, and a row on each side.
Later research has discovered that the viceroy is, in fact more toxic than the monarch and this resemblance should be considered as a case of Müllerian mimicry.
Cytochrome P450 oxidases (or P-450), a specific class of MFO, have been specifically connected to detoxification of plant secondary metabolic products.
In Europe, there are three morphs: the typical white morph (betularia or typica), and carbonaria, the melanic black morph.
Self-decoration is seen in some insects such as caddis fly larvae, the nymphs of the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
(2006), Population Genetics and Microevolutionary Theory, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., ISBN 9-780-47140951-9
Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators.
The adults of the various species now resemble each other so well that the species cannot be distinguished without close morphological observation and, in some cases, dissection or genetic analysis.
A good example is the Indian white admiral (Limenitis procris) which has five forms, each geographically separated from the other by large mountain ranges.
Camouflage Snow camouflage In his 1889 book Darwinism, the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace considered the white coloration of Arctic animals.
Disrupting perception of motion Disrupting the attacker's perception of the target's motion was one of the intended purposes of dazzle camouflage as used on ships in the First World War, though its effectiveness is disputed.
A study in 2020 found that the frequency and duration of tonic immobility was affected by the sex of the wasp and the temperature of the environment, but not the color of the background the wasp was on.
essentially the same as one widely practised during the Great War for the concealment, not of caterpillars, but of caterpillar-tractors, [gun] battery positions, observation posts and so forth." == References ==
The relationship with some of these animals, such as sea anemones is mutualistic; in the case of aposematic animals like stinging sea anemones, the crabs are making use of the warning coloration of these partners to ward off predators.
The heterozygote has a permanent advantage (a higher fitness) so long as malaria exists; and it has existed as a human parasite for a long time.
Morphogenesis Butterfly eyespots are formed during embryogenesis as a result of a morphogenetic signalling centre or organizer, called the focus.
These ants use autothysis as a self-destructive defense to protect their territory, but they use it differently from termites, in that their primary uses for autothysis do not include blocking the tunnels of their territory from attackers, but more so for combat purposes during territorial battles.
First, there is their characteristic haplodiploid sex determination system, whereby all males are haploid, and all females diploid.
The ambiguous uses of camouflage—drawing attention when a fashionable look and doing the opposite in military use—fascinated Warhol.
Kerr was accompanied by John Samuel Budgett, who studied the frogs of the area and discovered a new genus.
However, some birds (inexperienced starlings and domestic chicks) also innately avoid conspicuously coloured objects, as demonstrated using mealworms painted yellow and black to resemble wasps, with dull green controls.
Where the background is brighter than is possible even with white pigment, counter-illumination in marine animals, such as squid, can use light to match the background.
Properties and chemistry Cephalopod ink contains a number of chemicals in a variety of different concentrations, depending on the species.
Aggressive mimicry Chrysopidae lacewing larvae decorate themselves with a mixture of materials including moulted cuticle and their own droppings, which appears to serve both to camouflage the larvae and to repel predators.
Direct production occurs through the presence of visible coloured cells known as pigment which are particles of coloured material such as freckles.
Ecology Beetle larvae of the chrysomelid subfamilies Criocerinae and Galerucinae retain their feces in piles on their backs, regularly adding material as feces slips off.
In the deep waters that the hatchetfish lives in, only blue light with a wavelength of 500 nanometres percolates down and needs to be reflected, so mirrors 125 nanometres apart provide good camouflage.
"Advanced camouflage system and method, Patent application 11/159,911, Publication US 2005/0276955 A1".
He noted that "[t]he whole proceeding is most human and purposeful", and that if a Stenorhynchus crab is cleaned, it will "immediately begin to clothe itself again with the same care and precision as before".
Females tend to convert more food into fat, while males convert more into muscle and expendable circulating energy reserves.
Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats.
They can completely regenerate the autotomically released or otherwise damaged skin tissue — regrowing hair follicles, skin, sweat glands, fur and cartilage with little or no scarring.
Mimicry Batesian Batesian mimicry, named for the 19th century naturalist Henry Walter Bates who first noted the effect in 1861, "provides numerous excellent examples of natural selection" at work.
In one study he found that of 123 species of bird, the kittiwake eggs scored highly with 8.2 out of 10.
It was classified as "adventitious protection" by Edward Bagnall Poulton in 1890, and as "adventitious concealing coloration" or "adventitious resemblance" by Hugh Bamford Cott in 1940, who compared it to the way Australian aborigines stalked waterfowl, covering their faces with water lily leaves.
Phylogeny A number of phylogenies, both molecular and morphological, have been produced for Darwin's finches.
The ants use this self-sacrifice to kill one or more enemies which entangle themselves in this sticky substance.
americanorum (now more commonly known as Bombus pensylvanicus), which is noxious to predators due to its sting.
The ink and opaline has been demonstrated to stimulate appetitive and ingestive behaviours, though opaline differs in the sense in that it inhibits ingestion.
Autotomy Some animals are capable of autotomy (self-amputation), shedding one of their own appendages in a last-ditch attempt to elude a predator's grasp or to distract the predator and thereby allow escape.
Some owlfly larvae, which are ambush predators, similarly self-decorate, hiding until prey comes within range.
Notch The Notch (N) gene expression precedes an upregulation of Dll in the cells that will become the center of the focus.
Up to five bands (very rarely more) run spirally around the shell, numbered 1 to 5 with the larger numbers further from the shell apex.
The decorator crabs attach plants, animals, small stones, or shell fragments to their carapaces to provide camouflage that matches the local environment.
The determining gene (or super-gene) for the inheritance of egg colour is believed to be carried on the W chromosome, which is directly transmitted in the female line.
The second question is more difficult, and can also be rephrased as being about the mechanisms that keep warning signals honest.
Other types of genetic marker, such as microsatellites, can have more than two alleles, and thus many different genotypes.
Over many generations, native species may evolve to be able to tolerate ingesting higher concentrations of toad toxins, or develop an innate ability to avoid consuming cane toad toxins.
Under crowded or "gregarious" conditions, the larvae have black bodies and yellow stripes along their bodies.
They are built on paired caudal processes (also called urogomphi) to the posterior end of the body; these processes move the shield over the body like an umbrella.
A genetic switch active in the cells of the embryo that will become the belly skin causes the Agouti gene to become active there, creating the countershading seen in adult mammals.
The body is short and does not extend as far as the supposed head, so that the insect is uninjured when it is seized.
Comparison of the observed paths with simulations of different pursuit strategies showed that these predatory birds used a motion camouflage path consistent with CATD.
"Targeting the Anuak: Human Rights Violations and Crimes Against Humanity in Ethiopia's Gambella Region" (PDF).
There has been an approximately decade long cycle of recurrent droughts in this part of east Africa since earlier in the 20th century and by the late 1970s signs of intensifying drought began to appear.
Some authors, like the Bosnian political theoretician Jasmin Hasanović, connect the emergence of ochlocracy in democratic societies with the decadence of democracy in neo-liberal Western societies, in which "the democratic role of the people has been reduced mainly to the electoral process".
Under the Transit treaty between Afghanistan and Pakistan a massive network for smuggling developed.
Party factionalism, corruption, personal rivalries, scandals, and political instability characterized the Sadiq regime.
The Molotov–Kuusinen agreement mentioned leasing the Hanko Peninsula, and determining the number of troops to be appointed in a separate agreement.
The propagandistic glorification of Mussolini also accompanied the party's transformation from 1926 onward.
Resolution 1989 dealt with sanctions relating to Al-Qaeda, while Resolution 1988 (2011) addressed sanctions against the Taliban.
Taliban The Taliban denied that the bounty program exists, with Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid saying that "our target killings and assassinations were ongoing in years before, and we did it on our own resources" without assistance from intelligence agencies.
China provided economic support to Mongolia by building factories and apartment blocks, and thousands of Chinese laborers were involved in the projects until they were withdrawn in 1962 in an unsuccessful bid to pressure Mongolia to break with the USSR during the Sino-Soviet split.
In a narrower sense, jihadism refers to the belief that armed struggle with political rivals is an efficient and theologically legitimate method of socio-political change.
Zemaryalai Tarzi, who was Afghanistan's chief archeologist in the 1970s, called it an "unacceptable decision".
This figure was updated, adding those counted by the South Asia Terrorism Portal but only concerning FATA and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and not the whole regions of the country.
Kayan Valley had functioned as a center for Ismaili political and military activities during the Soviet–Afghan War and subsequent civil conflict.
On 7 November 2014, Ehsan claimed responsibility for twin blasts that killed at least six people in Mohmand agency.
In October 2023, he launched a new social media account, Xenocosmography, marking a shift toward religious and numerological themes.
Similar proposals to those of the Prague Declaration received support in the European Parliament, which adopted a 2009 resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism.
Each Member State has its own approach to this issue but, in the interests of reconciliation, the memory of those crimes must be a collective memory, shared and promoted, where possible, by us all.
Timeline 2017 February 2017 On 13 February 2017, a suicide bombing took place on the Mall in Lahore, where a group of chemists and pharmaceutical personnel were demonstrating at the Charing Cross.
The assassin of former President Abdirashid Shermarke Ismail was tried, tortured, and executed by the Supreme Revolutionary Council.
Reason Wafawarova argued in 2008 that rigid approaches to democracy may undermine the ability for a developing country to achieve long-term stability and democracy.
In contrast, the Iron Guard in the Kingdom of Romania utilized a hardline form of mysticism-driven religion to encourage determination among the nation's ultranationalists.
However, Italy's conquests were always heavily contested, both by various insurgencies (most prominently the Greek resistance and Yugoslav partisans) and Allied military forces, which waged the Battle of the Mediterranean throughout and beyond Italy's participation.
The militants deliberately targeted civilians socializing outdoors, such as by executing an elderly florist serving religious travelers.
He also said that the agreed-upon period of reduction in violence was over and that operations against Afghan government forces could resume.
They confront the reader with the weight of past loss and the fear of an unknown future," adding that "despite their challenging nature, the pieces were deeply therapeutic." Karla Strand of Ms.
The Japanese had also assisted the formation of the Burma Independence Army (BIA), which aided the Japanese during their invasion.
Special Operations forces, among others the 7th Special Forces Group, 160th SOAR, Navy SEALs, and MARSOC Marines.
Although the Duke of Monmouth's rising of 1685 was the last rebellion, there was scarcely a year in which London or the provincial towns did not see aggrieved people breaking out into riots.
See also Presidential Commission of the Russian Federation to Counter Attempts to Falsify History to the Detriment of Russia's Interests Propaganda in the Russian Federation Russian web brigades == References ==
The Territory of the Al-Qaeda in Iraq or also Islamic Republic of Qaim during the occupation of Al-Qa'im in 2005, refers to the areas controlled by the Al-Qaeda in Iraq.
Doe's favoritism towards the Krahn people increased tensions by encouraging boundaries and status differences among native Liberian ethnic groups.
Among the founders of Lutte du Peuple were some dissident left-wing nationalists of the Ordre Nouveau and European socialists of the Pour une Jeune-Europe (not to be confused with Jeune-Europe headed by Thiriart), directed by Yves Batille.
Under Allende they were reorganised under the rubric National Confederation of Mothers' Centres (Confederación Nacional de Centros de Madres, COCEMA) and leadership of his wife, Hortensia Bussi, to encourage community initiatives and implement their policies directed at women.
When Bokassa declared that he was going to be hosting a coronation for himself as the emperor of the new Central African Empire, many of the novelties that attributed to the luxurious event came from France.
In 1985, Israel began to withdraw from Lebanon, as a result of domestic opposition in Israel and international pressure.
Miller would executive produce alongside fellow Handmaid's Tale executive producer Warren Littlefield of The Littlefield Company, with MGM Television as the studio.
All estates over 0.5 km2 in pre-war Polish territories and all over 1 km2 in former German territories were nationalised without compensation.
On 11 December 2020 Ziaulhaq Amarkhil the Governor of Nangarhar Province claimed on his Twitter account that Abdul Wali was killed by National Directorate of Security in the Chaparhar District although his death was not confirmed by the United States.
Land views capitalism as the driver of modernity and deterritorialization, advocating its use to dissolve existing social systems and reach a technological singularity.
Race Neoreactionaries endorse scientific racism, a pseudoscientific view which they refer to as "human biodiversity".
Hitler later dramatised an episode from this period when his father took him to visit a customs office, depicting it as an event that gave rise to an unforgiving antagonism between father and son, who were both strong-willed.
The Security Council reaffirmed Resolution 1373 (2001) and its determination to facilitate the implementation of counterterrorism obligations.
On 27 January 2003, during Operation Mongoose (War in Afghanistan), a band of fighters were assaulted by US forces at the Adi Ghar cave complex 25 km (15 mi) north of Spin Boldak.
The Agence France-Presse reported that Ansar Dine claimed to occupy the towns of Tinzaouaten, Tessalit, and Aguelhok, all close to the Algerian border, and that they had captured at least 110 civilian and military prisoners.
The term Talibanization (or Talibanisation) refers to a type of Islamist practice that emerged following the rise of the Taliban movement in Afghanistan, where other religious groups or movements come to follow or imitate the strict practices of the Taliban.
Boys' education emphasized discipline and physical training, while girls were taught to become supportive wives and caring mothers to breed a stronger, healthier new generation.
One criticism is that interests, both social and economic, are so diverse that a state cannot possibly define or organize them effectively by incorporating them.
Bush described his objectives for post-Cold War global governance in cooperation with post-Soviet states.
In theory members of the Regional Command were responsible to the party congress, but in practice they controlled the congress, and the leadership often decided results beforehand.
As the government broke into several factions, the issue was how to carry out a transfer of power to a new government.
Methods of electing the parliament can not be considered democratic, because the masses become completely disconnected from the Members of Parliament.
France accused the group of summarily executing 82 soldiers and civilians in capturing Aguelhok, describing the group's tactics as "Al-Qaeda-style".
The Derg was established on 21 June 1974 as the Coordinating Committee of the Armed Forces, Police and Territorial Army, by junior and mid level officers of the Imperial Ethiopian Army and members of the police.
The structure was destroyed by Taliban forces in September 1998, shortly after they captured the Kayan Valley.
A Burma Independence Preparatory Committee, chaired by Ba Maw, was formed on 8 May 1943 with a wide variety of respected members.
Pöttering brought up the classic study on totalitarianism by Hannah Arendt, which developed "the scientific basis criteria to describe totalitarianism," concluding that "both totalitarian systems (Stalinism and Nazism) are comparable and terrible," Pöttering said.
Due to a lack of information and secret annexes in the agreement, that had not been shared even with the then Afghan government, the Taliban were able to spread propaganda and disinformation about the agreement, including convincing local police and military units that the U.S.
It is one of the most important intersections in Mingora, and there are numerous shops and establishments located around this square.
These are elaborate and colorful hand-knotted carpets, which help indicate the distinctions among the various Turkmen clans.
The Kokuhonsha published a monthly newspaper called Kokuhon, and acted as Hiranuma's political support group.
Nazi-Maoism is mostly believed to have faded away after the Lotta di Popolo group dissolved itself in 1973.
However, this was opposed by the British, who, considering the timing to be unfavorable, had considerable reservations about supporting the BNA.
Norway was still under occupation in May 1945, but Vidkun Quisling and most of his ministers surrendered at Møllergata 19 police station on 9 May, one day after Germany's surrender.
Three days after establishing the National Assembly, its inaugural session was held at the pre-war Legislative Building and it elected by majority Benigno S.
See also Territory of the Islamic State of Iraq Territory of the Islamic State Territory of Boko Haram Territory of Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin Islamic Emirate of Somalia == References ==
This is supposed to allow a safe passage after the 31 August deadline for withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan.
Vincent Tong as Fuzz, an insect living in the Land of Monsters, who accompanied Kai and Daidan through the former realm until it was later revealed that he is the son of the Queen of the Monsters and was actually only luring Kai to her so he could be eaten.
On 8 September, Akhundzada issued a statement addressed to the interim government, telling it to uphold Sharia in Afghanistan.
It copies the "fashwave" aesthetic used initially by online supporters of figures like Donald Trump or Ron DeSantis.
Often, they took names such as Communist Party (Marxist–Leninist) or Revolutionary Communist Party to distinguish themselves from the traditional pro-Soviet communist parties.
However, members of the KPRA were never elected, as the Central Committee of the CPK appointed the chairman and other high officials both to it and to the State Praesidium.
Measures included a checklist in order for states to fulfill their obligations to the committee, and for states forwarding names to the list to use a "statement of case" describing the reasoning behind the request.
The Taliban were very reluctant to share power, and since their ranks were overwhelmingly Pashtun they ruled as overlords over the 60% of Afghans from other ethnic groups.
Reginald Slitterbottom, Frak's father and an archaeologist who is a member of the Explorers' Club, being its first Serpentine member.
From the Stalin era to the early Brezhnev era, the Soviet economy grew faster than the United States and maintained itself as the second largest economy in both nominal and purchasing power parity values for much of the Cold War until 1988, when Japan took the second place.
Assad's victory also marked the supersedure of the military over the Ba'ath party structures; making the armed forces a central centre of political power.
Life expectancy in the North was 72 before the famine which was only marginally lower than in the South.
Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg argued that the denial of the crimes of communism is analogous to denying the crimes of Nazism, which in many EU countries is a criminal offence, arguing that "there is a fundamental concern here that totalitarian systems be measured by the same standard.".
The popularity of the conquest meant that newspapers such as the Asahi Shimbun that had initially opposed the war swiftly pivoted to support the war as the best way of improving sales.
Saddam reacted by threatening to invade Kuwait if it continued to increase its oil output (which Kuwait did nevertheless).
France In 1964, a Maoist circle formed at École Normale among students who studied with Louis Althusser.
Corporatist systems were most prevalent during the mid-20th century in Europe and later elsewhere in developing countries.
Goryeo was never conquered by the Mongols, but exhausted after three decades of fighting, the Korean court sent its crown prince to the Yuan capital to swear allegiance to Kublai Khan, who accepted and married one of his daughters to the Korean crown prince.
As a result, he decided not to use the term "Maoism" and instead favoured characterising these ideological contributions as Mao Zedong Thought (Mao Zedong sixiang).
The creation of extremely large industrial complexes, farms, engineering efforts, buildings and statues was to prove the superiority of the socialist system over capitalism.
Yarvin told Vanity Fair: "The fundamental premise of liberalism is that there is this inexorable march toward progress.
By April 1969 the "popular revolutionary" uprising had been crushed, and al-Haji recanted his beliefs publicly.
Sam Jaeger as Mark Tuello (seasons 4–6, recurring season 3, guest season 2), an operative of the U.S.
Under Karmal, the Khalqist's were purged and replaced by the Parcham majority in the Council of Ministers.
Women's associations were eventually brought under the control of the party, as was the press, and in December 1971 Mobutu proceeded to emasculate the power of the churches.
Other Nazi collaborators, as well as Germans accused of war crimes, were also arrested and tried during this legal purge.
On 15 November 1990 after the elections the People's Republic of Bulgaria was officially renamed to the Republic of Bulgaria.
It may also be applied unfairly by those who do not understand Islamic culture and the basis of sharia law, or who fail to distinguish between moderate Islamic and extremist Islamist states, or misapplied to perceived threats which are not true or have yet to be proven.
titled "The Trump Administration and the Media", which mentioned that Trump's verbal attacks included the term "the enemy of the people".
Terijoki Government See also Finnish Socialist Workers' Republic, an earlier, independent socialist state which existed for several months in 1918.
In September 2024, the New York Society Library listed Tell Me What You See as one of the "Best Books of the 21st Century (So Far)," alongside titles by Neil Gaiman, Alice Hoffman, Colm Tóibín, and others.
The Protocols incorporate many of the core conspiracist themes outlined in the Robison and Barruel attacks on the Freemasons and overlay them with antisemitic allegations about anti-Tsarist movements in Russia.
Gigantomania (from Ancient Greek γίγας gigas, "giant" and μανία mania, "madness") is the production of unusually and superfluously large works.
Eventually, Japanese became the official language in addition to the Chinese taught in Manchukuo schools.
Critics said that the Afghan withdrawal would undermine the fragile security situation in the region and that the troop reductions would hamper the ongoing peace talks between Taliban fighters and the government of Afghanistan.
The operation aimed at indiscriminately eliminating residual threat of terrorism and consolidating gains of operations made so far.
In 1997, the country's name was restored to the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Mobutu died less than four months later while in exile in Morocco.
These organizations were a mix of Thiriart's theses with a Maoism adapted to the European scene but there was a fundamental difference because while for Thiriart Maoism was a secondary element, for Nazi-Maoist organizations it was a fundamental element.
Though human rights violations were committed by all sides, the great majority of abuses against civilians as well as actions leading to devastating famine were committed by the government.
Nazi Germany German dictator Adolf Hitler was extremely interested in architecture, and desired works of monumental scale to be built to represent the values and achievements of the Nazi regime, and to impress foreigners and later generations.
Tsolakoglou, Rallis and Logothetopoulos (in Germany, where he had escaped to) were all arrested, along with hundreds of other collaborationists.
Far more than the Chinese communists, the Khmer Rouge pursued the ideal of economic self-sufficiency, specifically the version that Khieu Samphan had outlined in his 1959 doctoral dissertation.
The Velebit Publishing House (Nakladna knjižara "Velebit"), named for the Velebit uprising, published pro-Axis works, including Japanac o Japanu [A Japanese on Japan] by the Japanese chargé d'affaires, Kazuichi Miura.
There is additional speculation that the destruction may have been influenced by al-Qaeda in order to further isolate the Taliban from the international community, thus tightening relations between the two; however, the evidence is circumstantial.
The Romanian Hearth Union (UVR), which had around 4 million supporters in 1992, has been described as neofascist.
The term was used in a Boston Globe editorial published on November 6, 1999, warning of the emerging threat of the Taliban regime almost two years before the attacks of September 11, 2001.
This appears to me to be a true new frontier; to a certain extent the religious experience can now be scientifically studied...
According to accounts of refugees who were recruited to mass gymnastics, the collectivist principle is nurtured by physical punishment such as beatings and more importantly the organization of recruits into small units, whose performances were held accountable by larger units.
Aside from the Office of the Minister President, the local Czech government in the Protectorate consisted of the Ministries of Education, Finance, Justice, Trade, the Interior, Agriculture, and Public Labour.
In 1954, Hoxha condemned the American and British liberation of Albania calling them "enemies of the people".
This authority was used to suppress and spy on the activities of civil rights workers, along with others suspected of sentiments contrary to white supremacy.
In Ohio, the Ohio Revised Code section 1545 provides for general park districts, often known as "metro parks", in addition to "township park districts" allowed under ORC section 511.18.
However they urge the government to ensure the national park is set up in a way that allows it to emphasise tackling climate change, promoting species recovery, maintaining community resilience, modern governance, and that its boundaries consider the biodiversity of the area's species and habitats.
Geometry and interrelations First and foremost, the use of classical order structures, such as perspective, proportion, symmetry, circles, quadrilaterals, and triangles, was a reflection of the strong connection and admiration for the aesthetics of antiquity during the Renaissance.
Boom and decline At the beginning of the 20th century, the clock industry initially prospered but then collapsed as the First World War broke out and, subsequently, the Russian and American markets broke away.
The first (in 2004) to identify periurban parks and list their functions (environmental, social, economic).
Kirschwasser is colourless because it is either not aged in wood or was aged in barrels made of ash.
A free 27-minute SOPLAY/SOPARC Introduction, Practice, and Assessment Training DVD is available from Active Living Research.
The new methods meant many workers became redundant and brought higher competition from the newly industrialized countries.
along national parkways such as the Blue Ridge Parkway, which has numerous individually named overlooks for viewing the Blue Ridge Mountains and their valleys.
Development Background The plan was first announced in August 2016 at a presentation to the news media in the CityPlace neighbourhood, south of the Railway Lands near Bathurst Street.
In 1850, the Duchy of Baden founded the first school for clockmakers in Furtwangen in order to improve the standard of production and make it more efficient.
350 new species and sakheskhvaobis saplings were added to the garden nursery, which will soon be moved to permanent areas in the park.
Transportation The park is accessible within walking distance south from Weiwuying Station of Kaohsiung Metro.
Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo, where they interact with the other main characters of the show: Princess Bubblegum, The Ice King, Marceline the Vampire Queen, Lumpy Space Princess, and BMO.
To estimate how much physical activity a park generates, it is possible to aggregate the total METs across park users.
The basic requirements advocated for the mental and physical well being of children were good food, air, sunshine and exercise.
The belief—sometimes called "keyhole tenure", and which persisted as recently as the early 20th century—was actually a fallacy, but to stop landless peasants unlawfully squatting on commons, the Erection of Cottages Act 1588 (31 Eliz.
The island has hosted many business retreats and events such as the Norwegian Chess Tournament in 2015.
This was either done to wield power, or protect the sanctity of the knowledge from getting diluted or misused.
The result is a beautiful shared space for these residents, who enjoy a heightened sense of security and increased property values.
By the early 1900s, the front yard had become an accepted, "buffer between the private home and the public street".
Park systems are included, but not ranked because park systems are networks that contain multiple parks.
The two meanings of the term, as the ornamental parts of a garden, and as a commercial place of entertainment, coexisted in English from at least the 17th century.
People in the German-speaking region where it originated usually serve it after dinner, as a digestif.
Desire paths typically emerge as convenient shortcuts where more deliberately constructed paths take a longer or more circuitous route, have gaps, or are non-existent.
Industrial production The heart core of Black forest clock production was an area that extended from Triberg via Furtwangen to St.
The island is currently run by Aasmund's son, Olav Bryn, who plants and redesigns the garden every year.
There is also an extensive trail system running around the lake that is able to be hiked year-round.
Features Key features in the gardens include: Fountains: The Fountain of Venus and the Bee (1933, attributed to Prof.
Comprehensive greenway systems or networks, usually based on natural landforms such as valleys or ridges but sometimes simply an opportunistic assemblage of greenways and open spaces of various kinds to create an alternative municipal or regional green infrastructure.
Similar to dressage, teams of four riders were qualified at either the World Equestrian Games (WEG) or through a regional competition.
In 1927, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission was formed to plan and acquire parklands along stream valley corridors in the then-rural northern and eastern suburbs of Washington, D.C.
The frescoed walls of the rooms of the house belong to this phase, with red and yellow panels and small figures in an architectural framework.
The gardens take their name from the Bajulo, a magistrate who represented the sovereign authority following the Norman conquest of southern Italy.
Great Britain was the most successful nation, topping the medal table with three golds and five medals in total.
Planning approval and proposed route In January 2023, the project was given planning approval for the first section between Camden Gardens and Royal College Street.
Legal status and ownership "A Vision for Little Marlow Lakes Country Park" in 2002 set out local authority supplementary planning guidance which states that "Land ownership of the Gravel Pits is predominantly private and fragmented" and "has a complex distribution of land ownership.
These game preserves evolved into landscaped parks set around mansions and country houses from the sixteenth century onwards.
References Sources This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
The subsequent expansion of the city outside the walls of the castrum followed these routes, giving a disorderly appearance to the urban plan.
Types of neighborhood parks include mini-parks, or pocket parks, and may be further described by their predominant recreational offering.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
Tree cover is dominated by species such as holm oak (Quercus ilex) and pines, with undergrowth including ivy (Hedera helix), while hedges are formed by box (Buxus sempervirens), laurel (Laurus nobilis), and myrtle (Myrtus communis).
Part of the foundation for this project consisted of reclaiming 22 miles (35 km) of unused rail trails.
A typical kirsch chocolate consists of no more than one milliliter of kirsch, surrounded by milk or (more usually) dark chocolate with a film of hard sugar between the two parts, which acts as an impermeable casing for the liquid content and compensates for the lack of sweetness typical of kirsch.
A marine park is a designated park consisting of an area of sea (or lake) set aside to achieve ecological sustainability, promote marine awareness and understanding, enable marine recreational activities, and provide benefits for Indigenous peoples and coastal communities.
Hammen sponsored House Bill 1533 to amend the Baltimore City Charter, allowing the city to close alleyways and lease them to interested parties.
These are found in the early architecture of most cultures, from Eurasia to Pre-Columbian architecture.
The registration authorities are the county councils, and when there is no ownership, a local council, such as a parish council is normally given guardianship by vesting the property under section 8 the act.
Access to cheaper apartments on the upper floors was almost always via separate stairs entered from the outside.
A mandala vatika (Sanskrit: मण्डलवाटिका, romanized: maṇḍalavāṭikā) is a garden with architecture that is designed per Vedic geometry.
A park system, also known as an open space system, is a network of parks and other green spaces that are connected by public walkways, bridleways or cycleways.
After touring the gardens, guests eat at the restaurant on the island with a rotating buffet prepared by their chef, Andre Mulder.
''Upper Circum-Bug Lands'') is a planned national park in Ukraine, located in Khmelnytskyi Oblast, in the western part of the country.
A recreation center is a facility that supports myriad park activities, including sports and other recreational activities appropriate to the population or community that uses the park.
The cities of Urbandale, Clive, and West Des Moines all are mostly in Polk County, but have parks located in other counties which are not counted towards parks in Polk County.
IUCNcategory PRO (proposed) In 1998 Karimpuzha was listed by the first World Heritage Forest meeting in Berastagi, Indonesia, as being of potential interest as a World Heritage Forest.
After the handover of Taiwan from Japan to the Republic of China in 1945, the Kuomintang government continued the military purpose of the camp until 1979, when the camp was deemed no longer suitable for military purposes.
The Vauxhall arranged masquerades, fire works, and performances by actors, athletes, circus artists and all sorts of artists passing through town.
They include: Memoirs of the Court of England during the Reign of the Stuarts (1840) Memoirs of the Court of England from the Revolution of 1688 to the Death of George II (1843) George Selwyn and his Contemporaries (1843, new ed.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
Many of these early playgrounds were designed by important landscape architect, Frederick Law Olmsted who was earlier involved with the highly influential design of Central Park, New York.
These are used during worship and meditation, and sanctified with specific rituals and offerings to bring in blessings and auspiciousness.
State statutes often have a general law to provide for park districts' creation, dissolution, geographic borders, and annexation; the selection of governing boards, often referred to as park boards; and the criteria for levying property taxes on behalf of the district.
Community Greens, sometimes referred to as backyard commons, urban commons, or pocket neighborhoods, are shared open green spaces on the inside of city blocks, created either when residents merge backyard space or reclaim underutilized urban land such as vacant lots and alleyways.
In 321 BC the Partition of Triparadisus was signed at Triparidisus in Syria, a vast pleasure grounds complex in Syria.
They have also shaped the outdoor educational profession in other ways: in 1983, at a meeting of the Association of Experiential Education, women educators met around a picnic table at midnight to discuss the problems facing women in the field of outdoor education.
The Forge: Lemont Quarries Adventure Park is an adventure park that opened July 17, 2020 in Lemont, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago.
Control of the garden changed hands a few times, before it fell in Zugdidi City Council, who turned it into a culture and leisure park hosting a varieties of events, entertainment, and attractions, but the care and development of the plant collection was neglected.
Entrants included Adjaye Associates, AL_A, AHMM, Asif Khan, Coffey Architects, Cullinan Studio, CZWG, David Kohn, Grant Associates, Hawkins\Brown, Jamie Fobert Architects, LDA, Lifschutz Davidson Sandilands, Migrants Bureau, Weston Williamson, and Zaha Hadid Architects.
The Société des établissements de plein air du Québec (French pronunciation: [sɔsjete dez‿etablismɑ̃ də plɛn‿ɛʁ dy kebɛk], Quebec Outdoor Establishments Company), also known as Sépaq, is the agency of the Government of Quebec that manages parks and wildlife reserves.
Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.
Flower gardens combine plants of different heights, colors, textures, and fragrances to create interest and delight the senses.
Fort Nelson Park stands in the vicinity today, a pocket park housing a granite monument commemorating the fort.
In the second half of the 18th century, technical progress led to winding wheels being produced in yellow brass.
Development and design Pocket parks typically develop on small, solitary, irregularly shaped, and physically damaged lots.
Such sites are often used for experimental archaeology, and as shooting locations for documentaries and historical-fiction films and television.
High-quality kirschwasser should be served around 16 °C (61 °F), warmed by the hands as with brandy.
In digital environments where natural wear does not exist, designers use "artificial" desire lines to study behavior, such as: Website heat maps to track cursor movement and clicks.
In response to continuing attacks from Native Americans and the threat of British attacks during the Revolutionary War, Fort Nelson was constructed between what is currently Main Street and the river, with its main gate near Seventh Street.
Recreation Sports facilities and activities in the area include an athletics track, angling for members of the Marlow Angling Club, open water swimming, paddleboarding and water skiing.
It is a popular destination for all those who wish to have an outdoor picnic, enjoy some outdoor activities and games or even just to have a relaxing day out with friends and family.
Corbelling supporting upper stories and particularly supporting projecting corner turrets subsequently became a characteristic of the Scottish baronial style.
History The Balio Gardens were created in 1872 by Count Agostino Sieri Pepoli who leased the Balio Towers and grazing land from the city in exchange for restoring the towers and developing a public garden.
Its purpose is to honor all veterans from Cayuga County that have served in the United States military from the Revolutionary war through current deployments.
Robert was sentenced to seven years in prison, and claimed his brother knew nothing of the cannabis operation.
It was composed of an earth terrace, or tai, which served as an observation platform in the center of a large square park.
After a 2007 Complete Streets redesign in parts of New York City, there was a nearly 50% increase in retail sales on 9th Avenue in Manhattan and a nearly 50% decrease in commercial vacancies in Union Square.
In the Middle Ages, the garden also played a very important role, but in another sense: it was walled, protected from the outside.
produced one of the earliest products of mass-produced cast-iron seating in America, an example of which is held by the Smithsonian Institution as inv.
Mandla Plant Fossils National Park Indroda Dinosaur and Fossil Park, Gandhinagar, Gujarat National Fossil Wood Park, Tiruvakkarai National Fossil Wood Park, Sathanur Akal Wood Fossil Park, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Amkhoi Fossil Park, West Bengal.
Mount Phillips is a mountain located on the border of Jasper National Park (Alberta) and Mount Robson Provincial Park (British Columbia).
Between directly after the signage was posted and several months after, the usage increased four times.
On 1 July 1870, the name reverted to Camden Town, only to be resited in December of that year further west.
On June 26, 2009 King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) named the park "Nagaraphirom", meaning "delightful park for the townspeople".
Often, schools have a taller, more advanced playground for older schoolchildren and a lower playground with a lower risk of falling for younger children.
Dressage Teams are made up of three riders, all of whom are also competing concurrently for individual medals.
Therefore, those competing for individual berths completed one dressage test and cross-country round, and two jumping rounds.
The European Union sets a minimum of 37.5% ABV (75 proof) for products of this kind; kirschwasser typically has an alcohol content of 40%–50% ABV (80–100 proof).
Beautiful settings such as the Golden Age, the gardens of the Hesperides, the Nymphs and the Muses, or the Elysian fields of Homer and Virgil were depicted in the literary works studied for designing these spaces.
Other common species include double-crested cormorant, great black-backed gull, herring gull, little penguin, black guillemot, Leach's storm petrel, black guillemot and black-legged kittiwake.
Additionally, community outreach that is promoted and achieved through educational opportunities of Complete Streets principles helps establish community social connectivity and encourages participation in active transportation modes.
This attack caused such panic in Rome that Pompey the Great arranged for the tribune Aulus Gabinius to pass a law, the lex Gabinia, to allow Pompey to raise an army and destroy the pirates.
Black Forest clockmakers The German Clock Museum (German: Deutsches Uhrenmuseum) also has in its collection some early Black Forest clocks with wooden cogwheels as well as a number of industrially produced Black Forest clocks.
In May 2018, the NDP government announced that Alberta was going to "create the largest protected area of boreal forest in the world by setting aside four new provincial parks and expanding another along its northeastern borders".
Structure Structurally, they consist of dry-stone lava stone enclosures, almost always circular in shape.
Outlooks: Viewpoints over Trapani, the Aegadian Islands, the Stagnone Lagoon, Monte Cofano, and the surrounding landscape.
Littke observed that "The High Line is undoubtedly loved, and it is a successful place in many ways", and that its success proves that "elevated parks can bring 'new' nature into cities without occupying ground-floor space".
The Donnafugata Garden On 12 September 2008, the Fondo Ambiente Italiano (Italian Environment Fund) received a donation of a Pantellerian garden from the Sicilian winery Donnafugata.
And there's a lot of that in the show, I think." Executive producer Fred Seibert compared the show's animation style to that of Felix the Cat and various Max Fleischer cartoons, but said that its world is also equally inspired by Dungeons & Dragons and video games.
Shilparatna, a text from the sixteenth century, states that flower gardens or public parks should be located in the northern portion of a town.
Monitoring for the presence of brain lesions may be required following a large or repeated exposure.
Effects on human health Mycotoxins not only have a substantial impact on the safety of food products and the health of animals, but they can poison those who consume them and cause a wide range of symptoms and diseases in humans.
A high-resolution technique was developed to detect F-actin at the light and electron microscopic levels by using phalloidin conjugated to the fluorophore eosin which acts as the fluorescent tag.
It causes profound activation of the peripheral parasympathetic nervous system that may end in circulatory collapse and death.
In the end the following symptoms might occur: a high fever, petechial haemorrhage, necrosis of muscles and skin, bacterial infections of the necrotic tissue, enlarged lymph nodes.
Studies have shown that it can cause diseases such as equine leukoencephalomalacia in horses, hydrothorax and porcine pulmonary edema in swine, and it can negatively affect the immune system.
Consequently, immunofluorescence microscopy along with microinjection of phalloidin can be used to evaluate the direct and indirect functions of cytoplasmic actin in its different stages of polymer formation.
The disease has also been reported in cattle, goats, donkeys, horses, and pigs, and has been experimentally induced in various other species, including rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, rats, dogs, ducklings, and chickens.
Other animals are susceptible as well, and can experience growth retardation, reproductive disorders, and vomiting if the substance is consumed.
Zearalanone can be extracted from foodstuffs along with aflatoxins in the same time by a specific immunoaffinity column.
Metabolism While there is no specific study on the metabolism of roridin E, there have been studies on the metabolism of structurally related trichothecenes.
This core ring structure contains an epoxide bridging carbons 12 and 13, as well as a double bond between carbons 9 and 10.
In February–March 2013 several European countries, including Romania, Serbia, Croatia reported nationwide contamination of milk for human consumption (and possibly of derivative products) with aflatoxins.
Moniliformin is formed in many cereals by a number of Fusarium species that include Fusarium moniliforme, Fusarium avenaceum, Fusarium subglutinans, Fusarium proliferatum, Fusarium fujikuroi and others.
Regulation of Biosynthesis Some gliotoxin molecules are not secreted by GliA and remain in the cell.
Although no significant systemic effects are expected after dermal contact in normal agricultural or residential environments, local skin effects can not be excluded.
Properties Satratoxin-H is almost completely insoluble in water, but is easily soluble in lower alcohols and polar solvents such as ethanol, methanol, 2-propanol, acetone and chloroform.
It is a potent suicidal inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase, an enyzme in the citric acid cycle and mitochondrial energy chain.
Further metabolism leads to the formation of several smaller organic molecules such as amines (M), carbon dioxide (N) and acetic acid (O).
Lupinosis, also known as phomopsin toxicosis or mycotoxinic lupinosis, is a mycotoxicosis primarily affecting sheep, caused by ingestion of phomopsins—mycotoxins produced by the fungus Diaporthe toxica (formerly identified as Phomopsis leptostromiformis).
The 2-2’linked secalonic acid A isomerizes in DMSO at room temperature to the 2-4’linked secalonic acid A and 4-4’linked secalonic acid A during 13hr, to reach an equilibrium of 3.2 : 2 : 1.
This procedure requires eight steps, and uses Suzuki–Miyaura coupling and oxidation of methylene acetal.
Nevertheless, Russia announced it would ban imports from the German farms that received contaminated feed.
It was shown to be a 2,2’- biaryl linked dimer in 1963 and the structure confirmed that year by single-crystal X-ray analysis.
It has been shown to be an intermediate in the biosynthesis of allantofuranone, a gamma-lactone antibiotic from the fungus Allantophomopsis lycopodina.
albicans is associated with damage to host epithelial cells; during this process Candidalysin is released and intercalates in host membranes.
Bolesatine causes gastroenteritis in humans and, at high enough concentrations, inhibits protein synthesis.
Orellanine displays tautomerism, with the more stable tautomer being the pyridine N-oxide form.The chemical structure of synthetically produced orellanine has been confirmed by X-ray crystallography.
FB4 is similar to fumonisin B2 and fumonisin B3 but it is lacking a hydroxy group located gamma- to the amino substituent while lacking two hydroxy groups compared to fumonisin B1.
As mentioned by Fox et al, this class of ‘unusually stable’ derivatives are dienophiles when involved in a Diels-Alder reaction.
The nucleus then moves to the outside of the membrane, but stays connected to the cell by a thread-like cytoplasmic bridge.
More than one study has shown that detectable levels of zearalenone and its metabolite alpha-zearalanol in girls are associated with significantly shorter heights at menarche.
The mechanisms underlying its toxicity and metabolism have been investigated by studying its interaction with mammalian cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Satratoxin-H, a trichothecene mycotoxin, is a naturally occurring toxin produced by the ascomycetes Stachybotrys chartarum and Trichoderma cornu-damae which is highly toxic and potentially fatal to humans and other animals.
Diagnosis and treatment Generally, diagnosis of slaframine toxicity is done by observation of clinical signs (salivation) in animals consuming legume forage, particularly red clover hay.
Candidalysin promotes damage of oral epithelial cells and induces lactate dehydrogenase release and calcium ion influx.
It is the β epimer of zeranol (α-zearalanol) and is a major metabolite of zeranol but with less biological activity.
Ustalic acid is a naturally occurring chemical compound found in the poisonous mushroom Tricholoma ustale.
The researchers found the desulfurized phalloidin was still circular, which demonstrated that the structure of phalloidin is normally bicyclic.
Slaframine poisoning or slobbers usually occur in a cooler and wetter spring or fall because these seasons are ideal for the growth of the fungus Rhizoctonia leguminicola.
If a larger dose is consumed, symptoms of a hemorrhagic fever will occur, as well as mental impairment.
Orellanine has been found to inhibit the synthesis of biomolecules such as proteins, RNA, and DNA, and promote non-competitive inhibition of several enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase, γ-glutamyltransferase, and leucyl aminopeptidase.
The mechanism is that 3-nitroprionionic induces reactive oxygen species and oxidizes dopamine generating dopamine-quinones which can reduce the activity of MAO-A.
Its first practical synthesis was reported in 1947 by Ralph Raphael, who had worked on penicillin during World War II.
The outer leaflet of cancer cell membranes appears to be enriched with negatively charged phospholipids, which seems to explain the antitumor properties of ribotoxins.
Aeruginascin, also known as 4-phosphoryloxy-N,N,N-trimethyltryptamine (4-PO-TMT), is an indoleamine derivative which occurs naturally within the mushrooms Inocybe aeruginascens, Pholiotina cyanopus, and Psilocybe cubensis.
Reproduction Zearalenone structure is similar to estrogens and α-zearalenol binds with an even greater affinity estrogen receptors, while β-zearalenol's affinity is lower than both the parent compound's and α-Zel's binding affinity.
In mice (given 20 mg nivalenol /kg bw orally or 3.7 mg /kg bw ip) the DNA of kidney, bone marrow, stomach, jejunum and colon was damaged.
Factors that will probably induce this reversibility are reduction of cellular FB1-concentration and increasing of cellular concentrations of the substrates for ceramide synthase.
Use and effects Pharmacology Like psilocin, 4-HO-TMT shows affinity for the serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2B receptors.
Tenuazonic acid has been a compound of interest in drug development research for Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Prenyltransferase catalyzes the formation of a dimethyl-cyclopentane and a cyclobutane using the intermediate's aromatic ring-alcohol group.
Uses Patulin was originally used as an antibiotic against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, but after several toxicity reports, it is no longer used for that purpose.
It has also been isolated from Myrothecium roridum, a pathogen leaf spot that affects mulberry, though it is unknown if it is used as a pathotoxin.
Beauvericin is a depsipeptide with antibiotic and insecticidal effects belonging to the enniatin family.
The slobber symptoms pass slowly when the contaminated hay is removed, however clinical signs may persist for 1–2 days following removal of the toxic forage.
Its role as an upstream precursor has relevance towards food safety, natural product chemistry, and pharmaceutical development.
Contact with the solution through ingestion, inhalation, or even prolonged physical contact produces symptoms similar to those listed below.
Acute toxicity The oral LD50 range of aflatoxin B1 is estimated to be 0.3–17.9 mg/kg body weight for most animal species.
As chemical agents, the fumonisins are distinct from the large family of Fusarium trichothecene (T-2-type) mycotoxins, and from the Fusarium estrogenic metabolite, zearalenone, an F-2-type mycotoxin.
However, its affinities for these receptors are lower than those of psilocin (by 8-, 6-, and 26-fold, respectively).
Legume hays contaminated with slaframine cause slobber syndrome and various animals are sensitive to its effects.
Synthesis The first synthesis of orellanine was reported in 1985 by Dehmlow and Schulz, and required ten steps starting from 3-aminopyridine.
It functions by binding and stabilizing filamentous actin (F-actin) and effectively prevents the depolymerization of actin fibers.
This was caused by a shipment of high-quality second-cutting red clover-orchard grass hay from a usual supplier in West Virginia.
In mice, the oral LD50 of this molecule is 2.5 mg/kg and poisoning is indicated by an increase in serum creatine phosphokinase activity.
Moisture availability, particularly high humidity and water activity, is a critical determinant of fungal colonization and toxin synthesis both in the field and during storage.
Another mycotoxin, ochratoxin, has carcinogenic and immunosuppressive effects, and can facilitate urinary tract development difficulties.
If rice, corn, cereals or meat products are contaminated with Penicillin citreoviridin, citreoviridin can be produced if the food is stored in a damp place.
It also proved to be an effective antimicrobial agent against the Gram-positive bacteria (Bacillus megaterium) and the Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli) and was found to be antifungal against (Microbotryum violaceum) and antialgal against (Chlorella fusca).
Teratogenic manifestations included anomalous extremities development, macrocephaly, abnormal head-to-body size ratio and absence of the head.
As the effect of T-2 toxin, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were observed in several mammalian species.
The affinity for the hippocampus could be relevant to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and subchronic administration to rodents induces hippocampal neurodegeneration.
Beauvericin is active against Gram-positive bacteria and mycobacteria, and is also capable of inducing programmed cell death in mammals.
Administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 to rats for six consecutive days, before acid dosage, exerted preventive effects on all alterations elicited by the toxin, like mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid peroxidation, by activation of the CB1 receptor.
Cytochalasin E, however, was noted to decrease glucose absorption in mice around the intestinal tissues by increasing the Km needed for glucose to reach the Vmax, which meant that a higher concentration of glucose was required in its presence to attain Vmax.
Synthesis of penitrem A involves six oxidative-transformation enzymes (four cytochrome P450 monooxygenases and two flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent monooxygenases), two acetyltransferases, one oxidoreductase, and one prenyltransferase.
Alpha-zearalanol is also produced semisynthetically, for veterinary use; such use is prohibited in the European Union.
Vioxanthin is a mycotoxin that was first isolated from the pathogenic fungus Trichophyton violaceum and characterized in 1966.
Use in medical research Recent studies have found that because 3-nitropropionic acid is a mitochondrial toxin, it can produce striatal alterations in rats similar to those observed in the brain of Huntington's disease (HD) patients.
Mechanism of action Multiple experiments have shown the different effects of PR toxin: it can cause damage to the liver and kidney, can induce carcinogenicity, and can in vivo inhibit DNA replication, protein synthesis, and transcription.
Several studies have shown that optimal conditions for fungal growth are not necessarily optimum for toxin production.
Reports of phalloidin in the edible (and sought after) Blusher (Amanita rubescens) have not been confirmed by later researchers Chemical structures == References ==
Levels of IL-8 and cell viability were also reduced to 80% and 20% when exposed to respectively 25 and 50 μg/mL CTN for 72 hours.
They differ from the closely related amatoxins by being one residue smaller, both in the final product and the precursor protein.
The possible presence of the toxin renders these species "suspected, dangerous, or not recommended" for consumption.
Its ion-complexing capability allows beauvericin to transport alkaline earth metal and alkali metal ions across cell membranes.
In the European Union, the limit is also set at 50 micrograms per kilogram (μg/kg) in apple juice and cider, at 25 μg/kg in solid apple products, and at 10 μg/kg in products for infants and young children.
The European Space Agency (ESA) has attempted to seek new options in terms of bipropellant rocket combinations to avoid using toxic chemicals such as MMH and its relatives.
Activated charcoal is often used to remove other types of toxins or poisoning that have been ingested.
In 2015, a unique supposed class of non-aminated fumonisins was reported on grapes infected with Aspergillus welwitschiae, where toxicities have not yet been established.
Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites produced by filamentous fungi, commonly detected as contaminants in agricultural commodities globally.
Together with some earlier experiments it has been proved that the PR toxin was indeed active on the cell metabolism.
It was tested on Swiss mice and found to be very toxic, though not the most toxic of the three toxins that were tested at that time.
Additionally, in another study, the EC50Tooltip half-maximal effective concentration value of 4-HO-TMT in activating the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor was 324-fold lower than that of psilocin (6,800 nM and 21 nM, respectively).
The structural arrangement is very similar to that of other extracellular fungal RNases, which are not toxic, and constitute a family whose best known representative is the RNase T1 of Aspergillus oryzae.
Cytochalasin E, a member of the cytochalasin group, is an inhibitor of actin polymerization in blood platelets.
In animal studies, consumption of polyporic acid caused reduced locomotor activity, depressed visual placing response, hepatorenal failure, metabolic acidosis, hypokalaemia, and hypocalcaemia.
Related compounds Aristolochene Aflatoxin Patulin References External links Roquefortine C on https://www.scbt.com
Although zeranol may increase cancer cell proliferation in already existing breast cancer, dietary exposure from the use of zeranol-containing implants in cattle is insignificant.
Fumonisin B2 is a fumonisin mycotoxin produced by the fungi Fusarium verticillioides (formerly Fusarium moniliforme) and Aspergillus niger.
Dietary intake of patulin from apple juice has been estimated at between 0.03 and 0.26 μg per kg body weight per day in various age groups and populations.
The nephrotoxic effects of ochratoxin A and citrinin, for example, are increased synergistic when exposure to both takes place.
Interactions occur between sulfur molecules that make up the disulfide bridge and thiol groups contained in cysteine residues.
The excess Ca2+ results in the enhancement of the mitochondrial electron transport system which will further increase the number of reactive oxygen species.
It is closely related to the frog skin toxin bufotenidine (5-HTQ), a potent serotonin 5-HT3 receptor agonist, but the aeruginascin metabolite 4-HO-TMT (thought to be its active form) shows strong binding at the serotonin 5-HT2 receptors similar to psilocin.
Each of these disciplines (rhetoric, sociolinguistics, discourse analysis, conversation analysis, etc.) is based on a specific interest.
noun, verb, pronoun, preposition) in formal, written sentences in a restricted number of "valued" varieties of English.
MDA has a concrete link to the social practice theory developed by Bourdieu, in that Scollon (2001a, p.
In systemic functional grammar, a thematic equative is a thematic resource in which two or more separate elements in a clause are grouped together to form a single constituent of the theme-plus-rheme structure.
For example, two notably distinct discourses can be used about various guerrilla movements, describing them either as "freedom fighters" or "terrorists".
The essential difference between discourse analysis and text linguistics is that discourse analysis aims at revealing socio-psychological characteristics of a person/persons rather than text structure.
Halliday's seminal Introduction to Functional Grammar (first edition, 1985) spawned a new research discipline and related pedagogical approaches.
Ulrike Hanna Meinhof is an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton in Hampshire.
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
Since the beginning of her academic career, she has studied humour, irony, impoliteness and deception from both theoretical and empirical angles, based on film discourse and social media data.
As a functional linguistic theory, it claims that both the emergence of grammar and the particular forms that grammars take should be explained "in terms of the functions that language evolved to serve".
The term was first coined by the American applied linguist Robert Kaplan in 1966 to denote eclecticism and subsequent growth of collective knowledge in certain languages.
So, here's a carefully packaged sentence that shows me in my best light The Guardian Oliver James 26 Jul 2013
Halliday argues that the meanings we make in such processes are most closely related to the experiential function.
And in February 2016, BYU Law School hosted the inaugural conference on LCL, with over two dozen legal and linguistic scholars from around the country discussing and debating the next steps forward for the growing academic movement.
The company has been repeatedly criticized by linguists for promoting misinformation about language.
Trainees listened through headphones to recordings containing expressions such as 'Bakugeki junbi taikei tsukure' (Take up formation for bombing).
The graph in the re-formulation by Mizutani is more easily interpreted, and shows a scatter plot of nouns versus other word classes.
Papers from the 29th International Conference on English Language Research on Computerized Corpora (ICAME 29).
The archaeological method focused on discursive statements and archives (épistémès), whereas the genealogical approach re-centres the problem of the production of knowledge around questions of power and is grounded in an institutional analysis (dispositifs).
The most salient difference is that a translation memory loses the original context, while a bitext retains the original sentence order.
Contextualist accounts of knowledge became increasingly popular toward the end of the 20th century, particularly as responses to the problem of skepticism.
A single text may belong to several regional subcorpora (if the author or translator was born, studied, or lived for a long time in different regions).
Matthiessen has suggested that the approach could be used with other global semiotic dimensions, specifying: the cline of instantiation the spectrum of metafunction the hierarchy of rank the hierarchy of axis See also Trinocular vision == References ==
For example, the meaning of the phrase "the Queen" may be determined by the country in which it is spoken.
The corpus of an ancient city, (for example the "Kültepe Texts" of Turkey), may go through a series of corpora, determined by their find site dates.
There is one more referential device, which cannot create cohesion: Exophoric reference is used to describe generics or abstracts without ever identifying them (in contrast to anaphora and cataphora, which do identify the entity and thus are forms of endophora): e.g.
Poynton was a pioneer in the description of tenor and interpersonal meaning, which later became foundational to the development of the appraisal framework.
Utilizing Gumperz's framework this way that showed that this type of therapy is perhaps creating a bigger divide between patients and staff.
Contextualization does not only ease everyday understand of language and language interactions, but it also aids in language learning and comprehension in an academic setting.
Examples of dangling "so": "Yeah, it's pretty exciting, though we're not really sure whether it will work out, so..." Speaker 1: "How was your date?" Speaker 2: "Well, he didn't show up, so..." Intensifying adverb "So" may close a sentence as an intensifying adverb, such as in "I love her so".
Text corpora are used by both AI developers to train large language models and corpus linguists and within other branches of linguistics for statistical analysis, hypothesis testing, finding patterns of language use, investigating language change and variation, and teaching language proficiency.
The corpus covers the period from 1816 to 2025, and as of 29 November 2025 it contains more than 812,000 texts by about 35,000 authors.
During translation, sentences can be split, merged, deleted, inserted or reordered by the translator.
Linguistic analysis, methods such as examining linguistic structures and the roles they play within conversational discourse, play a large role in using discourse analysis to establish relational frameworks.
Thus, various types of comparative studies and applications in information technology as well as development of often related innovative applications have been possible.
At one end of the spectrum would lie CDA and its focus on how wider discourses in the social realm affect language used by actors: whilst at the other end of this spectrum would feature conversation analysis, with its highly detailed focus on linguistic construction.
Modernism further gave rise to the liberal discourses of rights, equality, freedom, and justice; however, this rhetoric masked substantive inequality and failed to account for differences, according to Regnier.
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.074, ranking it 17th out of 58 journals in the category "Educational Psychology (social science)" and 39th out of 84 journals in the category "Experimental Psychology (social science)".
Results from the extensive and accumulative data analysis contained in LIVAC have enabled the cultivation of textual databases of proper names, place names, organization names, new words, and bi-weekly and annual rosters of media figures.
Some words are often found together because they make up a compound noun, for example 'riding boots' or 'motor cyclist' or ‘collocation extraction’ its very self.
Berger and Thomas Luckmann who in the 1960s studied the processes involved in the social construction of generally accessible everyday knowledge in their defining work, The Social Construction of Reality.
Treebanks also provide evidence of coverage and support the discovery of new, unanticipated, grammatical phenomena.
The field brought attention to cultural and associated linguistic habits in expression of English language.
Career Marta Dynel received her PhD (2006) from the University of Łódź, followed by habilitation (dr Litt.) in 2012 and a full professor degree in 2022.
The analysis of appraisal has also become influential outside Systemic Functional Linguistics, in various types of discourse analysis.
To wit, the énoncés (statements) constitute a network of rules that establish which expressions are discursively meaningful; the rules are the preconditions for signifying propositions, utterances, and acts of speech to have discursive meaning.
The interviewer, an African-American graduate student in educational psychology, has been sent to interview a woman at her home in a low-income neighborhood.
Formulaic language pause fillers include "Like", "Er" and "Um", and paralinguistic expressive respiratory pauses include the sigh and gasp.
Since this is a competition of ideas, a particular imaginary is 'successful' when people, the more the better, consider that imaginary common sense, i.e.
John Arnold Bateman (born 1957) is a British linguist and semiotician known for his research on natural language generation and multimodality.
When examined by itself, "me too" does not convey Speaker B's stance nor what they are talking about.
He invests his entire self in discourse, and this discourse enters into the dialogic fabric of human life, into the world symposium." Bakhtin's understanding of dialogue Dialogue is usually analyzed as some kind of interaction between two monads on the basis of a pre-conceived model.
In the phrasing of this response, the speaker is either warning John not join the group, or is giving him orientation so that he can understand the context of the discussion and participate.
Speaking is one among other symbolic resources which are allocated and distributed in social situations according to distinctive culture patterns." Hymes also used EOC to argue against the strong view of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, the idea that one's language determines one's cognitive ability.
Interactional stances In Conversation analysis, stance is used to express various nuances of action or an overlay to an action.
Furthermore, the illocutionary act is implicitly describing what the speaker is doing even though the utterance is lacking a performative verb.
A unique feature of the thematic equative is its conveying of a meaning of exclusiveness in the rheme.
In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc.
From 1998 onwards he has worked at the Universities of Essex and Nottingham and at the Postgraduate Programme of the Department of Political Science and History of Panteion University.
It was first created in the English language and the English WordNet database and software tools have been released under a BSD style license and are freely available for download.
The Google Books Ngram Viewer was developed in the hope of opening a new window to quantitative research in the humanities field, and the database contained 500 billion words from 5.2 million books publicly available from the very beginning.
According to Scahill, an individual arguing "for the children" makes it extremely difficult for an opponent to hold a "not for the children" position.
Each sample is 2,000 or more words (ending at the first sentence-end after 2,000 words, so that the corpus contains only complete sentences).
Whorf "showed how it is that human beings do not all mean alike, and how their unconscious ways of meaning are among the most significant manifestations of their culture".
Her main areas of research involve ethnographic research in European border communities and a comparative media-project about the 20th century on television.
Modern etymologists link it to the north-African Arab term tafaya/attatfíha, which refers to a stew of onion and coriander.
In the latter area he has written various handbooks: Initiation aux méthodes de l’analyse du discours (1976), Nouvelles tendances en analyse du discours (1987), Analyser les textes de communication (1998), Discours et analyse du discours (2014).
In Practice In terms of research methods, interactional sociolinguists analyze audio or video recordings of conversations or other interactions.
As a lexical ontology WordNet is sometimes called an ontology, a persistent claim that its creators do not make.
These conditions are called felicity conditions and are divided into three different categories: the essential condition, the sincerity condition, and the preparatory condition.
The data collection involved in MDA is relatively straightforward, with perhaps the exception of the desirability to record events at the site of engagement, which might result in access issues in some cases.
However, it should be obvious that only by a process of correcting and completing a corpus by hand is it possible then to identify rules absent from the parser knowledge base.
In the case of 'affect', for instance, these more delicate choices relate to different types of emotion.
Address and the semiotics of social relations: A systemic-functional account of address forms and practices in Australian English.
In the Science paper, Lieberman and his collaborators called the method of high-volume data analysis in digitized texts "culturomics".
Wallis (2008) discusses the principles of searching treebanks in detail and reviews the state of the art around that time.
"Grammar, language and the social: Poststructuralism and systemic-functional linguistics." Social Semiotics 3.1.
This "literally", according to Hugh Kenner, means what Lily herself would say, and not the classical literary narrator.
The JRC-Acquis Multilingual Parallel Corpus of the total body of European Union (EU) law: Acquis Communautaire with 231 language pairs.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
Bitexts are generated by a piece of software called an alignment tool, or a bitext tool, which automatically aligns the original and translated versions of the same text.
an approach to linguistic analysis based on the view that language patterns cannot be accounted for in terms of a single system of analytic principles and categories ...
The International Computer Archive of Modern and Medieval English (ICAME) is an international group of linguists and data scientists working in corpus linguistics to digitise English texts.
Satellite discourse in a changing Europe (with Kay Richardson), London & New York: Routledge, 1999 English in a Changing World (with David Graddol) (1999) Intertextuality and the Media: from Genre to Everyday life (with Jonathan M.
Consistency of textual location refers not to any gross notion of location, such as every other paragraph or every five lines.
History Early use of the term There is ongoing discussion about whether Austria-born Leo Spitzer's Stilstudien (Style Studies) of 1928 is the earliest example of discourse analysis (DA).
While other corpus projects of Russian are focused on fiction and edited texts, General Internet Corpus provides linguists timely opportunity to learn the language as it is, with all the slang and regional peculiarities.
Damon Mayaffre (born 1970) is a French academic, historian and linguist, specializing in the analysis of political discourse.
She then took up a part-time post of Professor in Psychology at the University of Auckland, New Zealand.
See also Collocational restriction Collostructional analysis Compound noun, adjective and verb Phrasal verb Siamese twins (English language) Terminology extraction n-gram analysis External links What is collocation == References ==
Examples of this work include Philipsen's study, which examined the ways in which blue-collar men living near Chicago spoke or did not speak based on communication context and personal identity relationship status (i.e.
Inclusiveness of politeness strategies Some claim that a few of these techniques may be used in more than one type of situation or more than one at a time.
Some contextualization cues include: intonation, accents, body language, type of language, and facial expressions (Andersen and Risør 2014).
In his study Joyce's Voices, Kenner analyzes in depth the use of this technique throughout the novel Ulysses.
Wörterbuch der Kriegstüchtigkeit (German pronunciation: [ˈvœʁtɐbʊx deːɐ̯ ˈkʁiːkstuːχtɪçkaɪt]; the title can be translated in various ways, such as “Dictionary of War Readiness”, “Dictionary of War Capability” or “Lexicon of Combat Capability”) is a German-language dictionary in the making.
Reception The philosopher Gilles Deleuze describes The Archaeology of Knowledge as, "the most decisive step yet taken in the theory-practice of multiplicities." See also Foucauldian discourse analysis References Further reading Deleuze, Gilles.
In addition, some other researchers focused on the acquaintance of politeness strategies and knowledge about politeness difference in foreign language education.
Sketch Engine: Open corpora with free access TS Corpus – A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research.
An additional pitch-related variation is pitch range; speakers are capable of speaking with a wide range of pitch (this is usually associated with excitement), while at other times with a narrow range.
If the clerk had proceeded to explain what chocolate filbert is, then it is possible that the customer would have asked for some.
In 2019 it came to light that Canadian governments of the 21st century have been relative lightweights in the Alliance.
In the construct of constitutional monarchy and responsible government, the advice tendered is typically binding, meaning the monarch reigns but does not rule, with the Cabinet ruling "in trust" for the monarch.
Association of Parents, Justice Jean Beetz found that section 17 was so similar to section 133 of the Constitution Act, 1867 (section 17 was based on section 133) that section 17 would not represent any change in regard to rights that had belonged under section 133.
The position is a Governor in Council appointment made on the advice of the prime minister of Canada.
Regarding housing, nearly all sponsors reported having sufficient capacity in their homes to accommodate their partners.
However, the Superintendent's term can be renewed by the Governor in Council following those five years.
The person who is unable to pay his obligation is considered to be an insolvent person under the BIA.
Canada has been a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) since its inception in 1949.
Background John Hogan became Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador after winning the leadership election following the resignation of Andrew Furey.
The Assistant Deputy Attorney General may appoint a lawyer not employed by the Ministry of Attorney General as a special prosecutor, if he or she "considers it is in the public interest".
From 1980 to 1984 there was no cabinet title but under the authority of the minister of supply and services before reappearing in 1984.
Another relevant treaty is the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (1990), which, although not ratified by Canada, sets international standards on the protection of the rights of migrant workers and the importance of family reunification.
any person, other than an officer, who is enrolled in, or who pursuant to law is attached or seconded otherwise than as an officer to, the Canadian Forces..." Thus, an NCM is any member who is not a commissioned officer or officer cadet.
Following a fellowship in traumatology, in Basel, Switzerland, Oxford, and Los Angeles, he began practice at the Vancouver General Hospital.
These general principles and themes, insofar as they are relevant to the instant appeals, may be summarized as follows: "Canadian maritime law" as defined in s.
Bennett Receiver General of Canada 29 June 1926 – 25 September 1926: The Minister of Finance (Ex officio) 29 June 1926 – 13 July 1926: Sir Henry Lumley Drayton (acting) 13 July 1926 – 25 September 1926: R.
As of November 2020, Kingsley serves as the chairman of the Executive Advisory Committee for Dominion Voting Systems.
The Superintendent of Bankruptcy is a Canadian government official who heads the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy, a regulatory agency operating under the Ministry of Innovation, Science and Economic Development, and exercices independent statutory and quasi‑judicial powers.
He was educated at the Académie De La Salle and went on to earn a BCom and a master's degree in Hospital Administration from the University of Ottawa.
Donahue, Alicia Elliott, Samra Habib, Catherine Hernandez, Shawn Hitchins, Ben Lewis, Téa Mutonji, Owen Pallett, Casey Plett, Heath V.
The office was established upon Confederation (1 July 1867) by Order-in-Council, and was given statutory basis later that year on December 21, through Statute 31 Victoria, c.
The EIA is owned by Transport Canada, leased by Edmonton Airports, and part of the National Airports System.
Mahon President of Athabasca University: Frits Pannekoek President of Mount Royal University: David Docherty President of Grant MacEwan University: David W.
The authority is governed by a 15-member board of directors appointed to represent the various municipalities and the Government of Canada (2 members).
used the Regime to manufacture and export two shipments of a patented antiretroviral medication to Rwanda.
The United Nations notes that funding under these two programs supported many initiatives, with those most likely to be supported by the Canada Fund for Africa being $220 million on polio and HIV, and $150 million on humanitarian food aid and water resources.
Instead, Borden learned of the creation of the Acting Sub-Militia Council via the press and in response Borden recalled Hughes back to Canada.
These municipalities include the cities of Edmonton (six members), Leduc (one member), Leduc County (one member), Parkland County (one member), Strathcona County (one member) and Sturgeon County (one member).
Dyane Adam, (born 1953 in Casselman, Ontario) was the Canadian Official Languages Commissioner from 1999 to 2006.
Many times, our nations have been involved in litigation that ends up at the Supreme Court." == References ==
It has no legal standing but is used to dictate ceremonial protocol at events of a provincial nature.
Pre-Confederation colonies of Lower Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Upper Canada and the Province of Canada each had this post.
The North Atlantic triangle is a theoretical construct for studying the history of Canadian foreign policy.
In 2020, the child poverty rate was 3% for those living in couple families, compared with 16.9% for those in female lone-parent families.
At a later date, the Court releases its opinion on the reference, in the form of a detailed written judgment.
The traditional languages of the people are Halq'eméylem, hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓, and Hul’q’umi’num.’ Yeqwyeqwí:ws is the proper Halq’eméylem spelling of Yakweakwioose.
Membership changes House of Commons Senate Party standings Members of the House of Commons Members of the Senate See also 2025 Speech from the Throne Official Opposition Shadow Cabinet of the 45th Parliament of Canada Women in the 45th Canadian Parliament Notes == References ==
Barlow chairs the board of Washington-based Food & Water Watch, serves on the Board of Advisors to the Global Alliance on the Rights of Nature, was a founding member of the San Francisco–based International Forum on Globalization, and was a Councillor with the Hamburg-based World Future Council.
Of the non-mandatory affiliates, CKWS-DT Kingston and CHEX-DT Peterborough, Ontario converted in 2013, while CFTK-TV Terrace and CJDC-TV Dawson Creek, British Columbia has yet to convert; these stations has since changed its affiliations to other networks.
December 11 – Conservative MP Michael Ma for Markham—Unionville crosses the floor to the Liberal Party.
The session was opened personally by Charles III, King of Canada, on May 27, 2025, during his first royal visit to Canada as King.
The Department of National Defence determined the facilities did not meet their needs but Corrections Canada, the Canada Revenue Agency and the Canada Border Services Agency were indicated as possible future tenants.
The conference delegates discussed the Arctic Ocean, climate change, the protection of the marine environment, maritime safety, and division of emergency responsibilities if new shipping routes are opened.
The position was first introduced in 1967 to help younger politicians gain experience for future ministerial roles.
In 2006, the Harper government announced several enhanced border security measures, including a plan to equip security personnel with weapons in order to be able to act effectively against suspects, including those carrying firearms, near the border (on either side).
This differs from the United States, where the executive branch is referred to as an administration and the federal government encompasses executive, legislative, and judicial powers, similar to the Canadian Crown.
Skowkale First Nation or Skowkale Band (Halkomelem: Sqʼewqéyl) is a band government of the Sto:lo people located in the Upper Fraser Valley region, near Sardis, part of Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada.
Measurement Canada (French: Mesures Canada) is a special operating agency of the Government of Canada's Innovation, Science and Economic Development portfolio, in the Small Business, Tourism and Marketplace Services sector.
On April 15, 2013, the Non-Public Property Board approved a second name change for the organization from CFPFSS to Canadian Forces Morale and Welfare Services.
History Prior to Unification of the Canadian Forces, virtually all Non-Public Property (NPP) activities were controlled and managed at the local level.
my experience has been that almost no one in the world will die this year because of the cost or the lack of availability of AIDS medicine.
When Canada became a Dominion in 1867, however, a separate Canadian Privy Council was established to advise the Canadian governor general on the exercise of the Crown prerogative in Canada, although constitutionally the viceroy remained an agent of the British government at Whitehall.
Broadbent had called for a resolution raising concern "for the more than one million Canadian children living in poverty." By 2000, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Finland had almost abolished child poverty.
Prior to the Committee's establishment, war financing was the responsibility of the Department of Finance.
The court addressed whether a requirement that all licensed drivers be photographed unconstitutionally violated the Hutterites' right to freedom of religion.
Prime Minister One of the main duties of the Crown is to ensure that a democratic government is always in place, which includes the appointment of a prime minister, who heads the Cabinet and directs the activities of the government.
It was formed after the 7th Canadian Parliament was dissolved, and lost the 8th Canadian federal election, so it never faced a parliament.
In June 2018, the Supreme Court of Canada found that the tribunal's determination that the Indian Act did not violate the Canadian Human Rights Act was reasonable due to judicial deference.
The completion of a new headquarters building on Ogilvie Road led the CSE to vacate the building by 2016.
At the federal level, the Australian constitution provides only for the appointment of "ministers of state".
It governed Canada from 10 October 1911 to 12 October 1917, including only the 12th Canadian Parliament.
2023 shuffle After a difficult parliamentary term, Trudeau announced the third major re-shuffle of his ministry and the first re-shuffle since the 2021 election, with the exception of ministers Tassi and Jaczek swapping roles in 2022.
In response to claims of such a bias at the similar Office of International Religious Freedom in the United States, Harper stated that Canada is "a very different country".
The intelligence commissioner heads the Office of the Intelligence Commissioner of Canada (French: Bureau du commissaire au renseignement), the agency which supports the work of the commissioner.
In September 2006, after her term had been extended by several months, it was announced that Graham Fraser would replace her.
While the speaker is an officer of the Senate, the speaker as a senator also remains a representative of the province or territory from which they were appointed.
As the King's representative, the governor general attends Parliament to deliver the speech from the throne, although this can and has been done by the sovereign themselves or another representative.
It was the official march of the Royal Canadian Air Force until the unification of the Canadian Armed Forces in 1968.
In British Columbia, appointments of special prosecutors are governed by Section 7 "Special prosecutors" of the Crown Counsel Act, Chapter 87.
The Fund was established by the Canada Fund for Africa Act in 2002 to fulfill Canada's obligations under the New Africa Initiative created be the Organization of African Unity.
CBC Arts (French: Radio-Canada Arts) is the division of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that creates and curates written articles, short documentaries, non-fiction series and interactive projects that represent the excellence of Canada's diverse artistic communities.
Since the Letters Patent, 1947, were signed by King George VI, the governor general of Canada—presently Mary Simon—executes most of the duties of the sovereign, including in their role as commander-in-chief.
The Conservative government's move was seen by many as motivated by a desire to destroy the Liberal party and cripple all other parties, not by concern over taxpayer dollars.
Overview Canada's federal political parties receive the most significant portion of public funding at election times that is based on what they have spent through electoral expense reimbursements.
In 2015, the federal rural riding of Churchill—Keewatinook Aski in Manitoba—which is home to many First Nations—had the highest child poverty rate in Canada in 2015 with about 64.2% living in poverty, according to the a Campaign2000 2018 riding-by- riding analysis.
"Finland, Sweden, Iceland left out: The Kingdom of Denmark stands by its decision to invite only five of the eight Arctic nations to an international meeting next week in Ilulissat, Greenland".
Fletcher Commanding Officer, HMCS Nonsuch Commanding Officer, 1 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 1 Area Support Group Commanding Officer, 41 Canadian Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 4 Wing Sources Government of Alberta: Order of Precedence == References ==
Reports Special Report on Foreign Interference in Canada's Democratic Processes and Institutions In 2024 NSCIOP released a report on foreign interference in Canada's elections and society from September 2018 to 2024.
Edmonton Airports, officially the Edmonton Regional Airports Authority, is an airport authority responsible for the management and operation of two airports in the Edmonton area.
Hughes after refusing to compromise subsequently berated Borden in a letter, after which point Hughes was forced to resign his ministerial post.
In 1990, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada for "his ability to work with political parties, candidates, the media and the general public helped to foster the atmosphere of confidence now associated with the entire Canadian electoral system".
CBC Arts has received considerable acclaim, winning multiple Canadian Screen Awards including for best talk show (The Filmmakers), non-fiction webseries (Canada's a Drag) and interactive production (Super Queeroes and The 2010s: The Decade Canadian Artists Stopped Saying Sorry).
Some other public sector workers, such as police officers and firefighters, had been declared exempt on the grounds that they were essential workers.
The reason given for the appointments of Emerson and Fortier was that the Conservatives were completely shut out of the three most populous cities in Canada – Montreal, Toronto, and Vancouver.
The need for legal uniformity is particularly pressing in the area of tortious liability for collisions and other accidents that occur in the course of navigation...
Info Source is a Government of Canada agency repository of information about or collected by the Canadian government.
The Group is currently chaired by Member of Parliament Ali Ehsassi and the vice-chairs are as follows: Garnett Genuis, MP (Conservative); Ruby Sahota, MP (Liberal); and Cheryl Hardcastle, MP (NDP).
List of Members of the Legislative Assembly References External links Election Results and Dates 1876 - 1905 from Saskatchewan Archives
Also, the Ontario Parole Board can also authorize the re-committal of parolees to custody, lift one's parole suspension, or cancel a temporary absence it has granted.
First proposed by the historian John Bartlet Brebner, it seeks to explain the importance of United Kingdom–United States relations to Canada's security, and even survival, during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
Analogues In the British Army, Royal Marines and Royal Air Force (and in the armies and air forces of many other Commonwealth countries), the equivalent term is "other rank" (OR); in the Royal Navy and other Commonwealth navies, the term is usually "rating" or "rate".
She instead decided to resign altogether from his Cabinet, saying that "to be effective, a Minister must speak on behalf of the Prime Minister and with his full confidence.
On February 23, 1990 the position was merged into that of Minister of Industry, Science and Technology.
It was inspired by the success of a similar parliamentary group in the United Kingdom and grew out of the Save Darfur Coalition initiated in 2006.
The Minister of Science and Sport was a position in the Canadian government occupied by Kirsty Duncan from July 19, 2018, to November 21, 2019.
Meanwhile, President Hu Jintao criticized Canada for making the Dalai Lama an honorary citizen and to make several meetings with him.
Shapiro was also criticized by former NDP leader Ed Broadbent for "extraordinarily serious credibility problems".
In 2011, Trans Link Systems considered suing Webwereld because they sold RFID writers that could be used for free traveling in Dutch public transport.
In 2021, TechTarget announced the acquisition of Xtelligent Healthcare Media, a marketing services, media, and data company.
Founded in October 2005, and based in New York, ITerating was created by CEO Nicolas Vandenberghe, who saw that there was an industry need for a comprehensive resource to help evaluate software solutions.
Beyond continuous publication of the website, it is known for its overclocking championships and other contests.
The platform was founded with the aim to solve legal and ethical issues surrounding sampling and music clearances.
Karma points are calculated as the number of upvotes a given user's content has received minus the number of downvotes.
By marking up content in semantic (X)HTML, front-end developers make a site's content more available to search engines, more accessible to people with disabilities, and more available to the world beyond the desktop (e.g.
Format Application installers designed for use with the PortableApps.com menu follow the convention of using filenames ending in a paf.exe extension, include HTML documentation, and store data in the Data directory.
Journalists Brenno de Winter References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2017-03-01)
Its content includes searchable databases for looking up Windows start-up programs and uninstall entries, as well as a free Internet forum to receive computer help.
M3, together with tech magazines "Computer Sweden", "PC för alla" and "MacWorld", were owned by International Data Group until 2025 when they were sold to private equity firm Regent LP.
The first section, titled "zahabrennye" (in Russian, "захабренные"), broadcasts entries that have received high approval from users of the website.
History Webwereld was founded in 1995 by Oscar Kneppers, who got the idea after visiting Silicon Valley in the summer of that year.
See also Acid1 Acid2 Acid3 References External links Official website Third-party mirror html5test.co (doesn't support all features of the original) Third-party mirror html5test.opensuse.org
A few examples of X-Software include X-Firefox (counterpart to Mozilla Firefox), X-Thunderbird (Mozilla Thunderbird), X-Gimp (GIMP), and others.
Geekologie was updated multiple times a day with articles on gadgets, video games, consumer electronics and popular culture related to games and movies.
In June 2005, the Web Standards Project decided that an anti-Internet Explorer campaign did not fit with their mission, and they handed the site over to Matt Mullenweg.
Editorial expansion In 2011, Memeburn expanded to launch Gearburn.com, a sister site which is focused on gadget and game reviews and news and Motorburn.com, which focuses on car news.
Users were able to moderate or respond to each post, a template the editor admitted borrowing from Slashdot.
Related publications include Brandweek, Adweek Magazine's Technology Marketing (ISSN 1536-2272), and Marketing Week (ISSN 0892-8274).
For a virtual funeral it is used an online video conference platform, such as Zoom, Skype, Google Meet.
retailers' sales of surveillance equipment manufactured by companies linked to abuses of Uyghurs as well as with The Intercept to investigate the U.S.
User contributions since May 2, 2018 are licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International.
WinPenPack programs are distributed as free software, and can be downloaded individually or grouped into suites.
Media personality Ryan Seacrest first came to national prominence at CNET, as the host of The New Edge and doing various voice-over work for CNET.
Wired executives blamed Goldman for mismanaging their IPO and not closing the round which already had investors booked.
It was further developed by the same people who developed Acorn Arcade, the contents of which were incorporated in 2006.
Alcatel-Lucent was looking to integrate ProgrammableWeb’s API monitoring services and other API related technologies with its own Open API Service and Developer Platform to strengthen its relationship with developers.
The website's author, Denis Kryuchkov, was nominated for the Producer of the Year prize (Russian: Продюсер года).
AI-generated content (2023) In January 2023, Wikipedia editors began the process of downgrading CNET's reliability rating as a source following the revelation that CNET was publishing content generated by artificial intelligence.
GeekWire is regularly featured on the Techmeme leaderboard as one of the sources most frequently posted to that site.
A "Tech Update" section was created to serve as a directory of proprietary IT research (dubbed "IT Priorities"), and a new "Power Center" was implemented to prominently feature webcasts, white papers and case studies from partners.
Numerama (formerly Ratiatum) is a French language news website that focuses on digital and internet technology.
Due to the prominence of Stack Exchange profiles in web search results and the Stack Overflow Careers job board, users may have reason to game the system.
Background Founded by Shaherose Charania, Angie Chang, and Shivani Sopory, the group organizes workshops and events aimed at helping female entrepreneurs.
Up to the end of 2019, the platform reported 272,020 fixed vulnerabilities using coordinated disclosure program based on ISO 29147 guidelines.
Additional functionality is available, such as providing building guides, sharing build lists, photos, and instruction, alerts for price drops, forums, and filters for automatically adjusting pre-made lists of components.
The latest round brought the company's total funding to more than $150 million and estimated valuation to nearly $500 million.
The name comes from the so-called LAN (Local area network) parties, which were where the founders gathered to play videogames 20 years ago, and would translate to English as "LANners".
Softpedia, VR-Zone, TweakTown, and the Tom's Hardware Forum all credited SemiAccurate for leaking these specifications.
Slyck covered other news topics such as rollout of broadband Internet, new and emerging technologies, device hardware, and advances in computer networking.
Stan's Lounge is crowded with MacCentral and MacMinute faithful in honor of Stan Flack and all that he did for the Macintosh community.
The project re-launched in June 2002 with new members, a redesigned website, new site features, and a redefined mission focused on developer education and standards compliance in authoring tools as well as browsers.
The magazine was published monthly until 2024, when it switched to a bi-monthly schedule with six issues per year.
A comprehensive list of advice and recommendations are available in the "Reduce" section of the site.
In 2017, The Next Web's Amsterdam conference came under fire for making misleading statements, and having a lack of transparency about paying presenters for speaking appearances, and for having a gender gap in the number of its male and female presenters, and a gender pay gap in their compensation.
TechRepublic was a part of the Red Ventures business portfolio alongside ZDNet, CNET, GameSpot, and Metacritic.
In 2025, TNW announced it would shut down its events and media operations, holding its last conference in June, while its coworking business continues to operate.
When Drobe closed as a news site in 2009, The Icon Bar was cited as a notable alternative and took over running the annual awards scheme for the RISC OS scene.
Events on behalf of the site were created, along with a podcast with Benjamin Gilbert and a webcomic.
Attrition is an information security-related website, created in October, 1998, which used to be updated at least weekly by an all-volunteer staff.
During this period it changed its motto to "the Independent Journal of Open Standards and Open Source".
It posted an announcement on July 20, 2016, that the site was down for an upgrade and would be restored in the shortest possible time.
Cangeloso, who had been promoted to Editor-in-Chief when Joel Evans left at the close of 2009 stayed on board in the same position.
In 2019, the sites underwent a redesign, with the Memeburn, Gearburn, and Motorburn sites operating under the Memeburn.com domain.
In 2022, IPVM partnered with the MIT Technology Review to examine an Israeli company's plan to develop DNA-based facial recognition and was cited in an ESPN exposé on Brooklyn Nets owner Joseph Tsai discussing Alibaba's, Megvii's and SenseTime's Uyghur-targeting software.
It functions as an online code editor and open-source learning environment, where developers can create code snippets, called "pens," and test them.
On August 9, 2021, a Nashville-based technology marketing company, TechnologyAdvice, announced the acquisition of TechRepublic.
It developed as a project of Graham's company Y Combinator, functioning as a real-world application of the Arc programming language which Graham co-developed.
In 2016, it was announced that Condé Nast had purchased Backchannel, though no terms of the deal were communicated, and only a transfer of the editorial team was planned.
In August, a complaint about Cryptome's identification of alleged Japanese terrorists led Network Solutions to briefly shut down the site.
Haller and includes contributions from over 100 people, including developers, designers, and translators.
Open-sourcing On August 7, 2020, Hunt announced on his blog his intention to open-source the Have I Been Pwned?
Its controversial opinions and perceived biases in its computer hardware rankings against AMD products have drawn criticism in the tech press.
An example of an online memorial is The COVID Memorial, which is a global memorial to commemorate all those who have lost their lives due to COVID-19.
The publication was subsequently acquired by TechMediaNetwork in 2013; in 2014, TechMediaNetwork changed its name to Purch, which was then acquired by Future in 2018.
The site's staff decorated the Trocadero Theatre for the screenings of Jennifer's Body in 2009 and Zombieland in 2010.
The website publishes a repository of web APIs, mashups, and applications, and has documented over 19,000 open web APIs and thousands of applications.
Philadelphia Geek Awards In 2011, Geekadelphia launched the Philadelphia Geek Awards, in conjunction with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University, to honor and celebrate achievements within the Philadelphia community.
Its content is compiled through a combination of live company data, artificial intelligence, and market activity contributed by a user base of over 80 million.
It was also explained that Backchannel had migrated away from Medium because of the platform's shifting business model.
On February 3, 2023, Mulesoft announced that it had shut down Programmable Web after 17 years of operation.
The Next Web company was established in 2006 by co-founders Boris Veldhuijzen van Zanten and Patrick de Laive in Amsterdam, Netherlands, and a technology news website of the same name was started in 2009.
Three years later on April 13, 2013, MuleSoft announced the acquisition of ProgrammableWeb to "become the go-to destination for APIs and Integration”.
He has publicly denounced the writings from competitor Tom's Hardware, Gizmodo, HardOCP, The Inquirer and DigiTimes.
On October 23, 2019, Lacy announced that Pando had been sold to one of its partners, BuySellAds, and that she had retired from journalism to focus on her new venture Chairman Mom—a community for "working women".
Operations Informa is organized into five operating divisions: Informa Connect, Informa Festivals, Informa Markets, Informa TechTarget, and Taylor & Francis.
The site features coverage on CPUs, motherboards, RAM, PC cases, graphic cards, display technology, power supplies and displays, storage, smartphones, tablets, gaming, consoles, and computer peripherals.
The attack was able to extract 8% of the site's username/password pairs, which amounted to approximately 8,000 of the 9,000 active accounts and 90,000 old or inactive accounts created during the site's 10-year history.
In late April 2002, Butler announced a relaunch of the site that included a reduction in links to other sites and a further increase in original content.
At the end of 2016, the site hosted a five-hour Facebook "Gifted and Talented Show" made up of sketches and holiday gift suggestions.
In June 2024, Informa closed two UK-based titles: Digital TV Europe and Television Business International.
The software was soon thereafter discontinued and Ghacks turned from a development type blog to a software and online news oriented blog.
Kaspersky's software is available for Macs, PCs, Android, iOS, Windows Mobile, BlackBerry and Symbian.
Ultimate Frisbee Association Brownlee is a professional ultimate frisbee player for the New York Empire of the Ultimate Frisbee Association (UFA), who were the UFA champions in 2019, 2022 and 2023.
Some groups are concerned that the workers who do the actual recycling are exposed to toxins that can be harmful to their health.
Its reports have drawn the ire of Chinese video surveillance equipment company Hikvision, whom IPVM revealed to have been providing surveillance equipment and technology key in the mass internment of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang.
In January 2024, Informa announced that it would merge the digital business of Informa Tech with TechTarget.
TechRepublic is an online trade publication and social community for IT professionals, providing advice on best practices and tools for the needs of IT decision-makers.
In July 2007, the forum underwent major changes that site administrators stated as necessary for furthering userbase growth.
Some posts are designated as "community wiki", which have a lower reputation requirement for editing.
History "MacInTouch" began as an independent print journal in 1985, originally published by Ford-LePage Inc., to provide news and information about Macintosh computers.
Kaspersky linked the malware to a state-affiliated group but did not specify which country was behind the attack.
It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement.
A transhumanist must safeguard value in the universe—so long as one's actions do not conflict with the First and Second Laws.
5, Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling paintings, etc., as a separate and central artistic contribution.
In a final ironic flourish, Swift warns that if Christianity were abolished, the stock market would fall, costing Great Britain more than the country had ever spent for Christianity's preservation, and that there would be no reason to lose that much money merely for the sake of destroying the faith.
The page was subsequently unblocked, with a Facebook spokesperson saying in an email to the Observer that "the pages were removed in error and restored as soon as we were able to investigate." References External links Official website
Features The FAQs and FRAs (Frequently Rebutted Assertions) on the TalkOrigins Archive cover a wide range of topics associated with evolutionary biology and creationism.
Boghossian was Chairman of the Prison Advisory Committee for the Columbia River Correctional Institution.
Newspapers in England and elsewhere accepted the timeline of events offered by the Second Spanish Republic at face value.
The content of the Traité has been traced primarily to Spinoza, but with subsequent additions drawn from the ideas of Pierre Charron, Thomas Hobbes, François de La Mothe Le Vayer, Gabriel Naudé and Lucilio Vanini.
World Three, Popper argued, was the product of individual human beings in exactly the same sense that an animal path in the jungle is the creation of many individual animals but not planned or intended by any of them.
Bibliography Ackerman, Galia, with Anna Hutsol, Oksana Shachko, Alexandra 'Sasha' Shevchenko, & Inna Shevchenko, FEMEN, Published by Calmann-Lévy (Paris 2013), 280 pages.
The British Centre for Science Education (BCSE) is a volunteer-run organization in the United Kingdom that has the goal of "countering creationism within the UK" and was formed to campaign against the teaching of creationism in schools.
It allowed me to realize my decades-old dream of making a film about the Thirty Years' War and its endless atrocities without needing a budget of millions of dollars to depict the war's bloody significance.
With sections on evolution, creationism, geology, astronomy and hominid evolution, the web site provides broad coverage of evolutionary biology and the socio-political antievolution movement.
The Chandogya Upanishad (3.16) states that the Purushamedha is actually a metaphor for life itself, and it compares the various stages of life to the oblations that are offered.
"There Is Power in a Union" was first published in the Little Red Songbook in 1913, and has been recorded several times.
In support of this he has quoted hers article: "Whence, then, the Gospels, the life of Jesus of Nazareth?
In November 2021, the South Korean NIS reported that the North Korean government has begun using the term Kimjongunism, in an effort to establish an independent ideological system centered on Kim.
According to a February 2020 poll, 53% of people in France support Mila and half of them are in favor of a right of blasphemy (half being against), which was seen as surprisingly low.
After his sailing trip, Knights suffers a devastating personal tragedy at the hands of Christian fundamentalists.
While Christianity is currently the predominant religion in North America, Latin America, and Europe, the religion is declining in many of these areas, particularly in Western Europe, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.
Promotion On September 9, 2009, Strange Music released a video on its YouTube account showing Yates regarding to his upcoming music video for "Show Me a God", stating that it would be a very serious video dedicated to his mother.
Since 2014, the band has been following a quarterly release schedule, producing a new studio album about every three months by releasing double singles bi-weekly.
The first one, who threatened her to "do her a Samuel Paty" if she tells him where she lives, received a suspended prison sentence of two years.
Throughout the occupation, it was German policy to plunder France, and food shortages were always a major problem as the majority of food from the French countryside went to Germany.
The song ends with a plea to protect children from the crusade-waging "bigots and bully boys / Slugging it out in the yard." "Leaving Beirut" The second track of the single runs at 12 minutes and 29 seconds.
The furore came to be known as the "'More popular than Jesus' controversy" or the "Jesus controversy".
Personal life Edwin Kagin was born in Greenville, South Carolina, to a Presbyterian minister father who had been born in Kentucky and a Daughters of the American Revolution mother who had been born in South Carolina.
However, he stood against the persecution of homosexuals by Castro's government, which he compared to Nazi persecution of the Jews, and said: "In Cuba there are no Jews, but there are homosexuals".
To the right, the "scale of vociferation" measures his oratory, rising from "natural tone" to "bull roar".
The newspaper was notable for its anti-religious view, regarding Christian beliefs with harsh skepticism.
Gavin scolds Lucetti for focusing too much on the pain of his wife's betrayal instead of the love that motivated her.
The song purports to be a response to the Second Vatican Council, a meeting that proposed reforms to the Catholic Church.
A spoken introduction describes the song as a response to the "Vatican II" council—which, among other things, broadened the range of music that could be used in services—and humorously proposes this rag as a more accessible alternative to traditional liturgical music.
At the age of seven, Goldman moved with her family to the Prussian city of Königsberg (then part of the German Empire), and she was enrolled in a Realschule.
Gavin points out that a Chinese child who dies in a traffic accident might never even know about Jesus, and therefore has no chance to be born again.
This would also imply that sentences like the negation of 'God exists' or 'God does not exist' are likewise meaningless, i.e., neither true nor false.
However, Theodore Drange distinguishes noncognitivism and agnosticism, describing the latter as accepting that theological language is meaningful but being noncommittal about its truth or falsity on the grounds of insufficient evidence.
Personal life Sandstedt married Charlotta ("Lotten") Sofia Wilhelmina Widell (6 April 1861, Rasbokil parish, Uppsala County – 25 October 1943) on 9 July 1881.
Internet phenomenon As word of Henderson's challenge to the board spread, his website and cause received more attention and support.
The Dude De Ching is a reinterpretation of Peter Merel's translation of the Tao Te Ching using dialogue and story elements from The Big Lebowski.
The lyrics open with the image of a child sleeping "in the glow of [a] Donald Duck light", a reference to Waters' prior song "The Tide Is Turning." Waters goes on to ask why a culture whose primary concerns are luxury, consumption and petty values would "kill the child".
Only A Game, Saturday, July 11, 2009 - Discussion of Dudeism and brief audio interview with Oliver Benjamin on NPR's Only A Game - at 46:11 Dude Awakening - Sunday Herald article featuring Dudeism
Falk (16 August 2009 – January 2013) Deborah Haarsma (January 2013 – March 2025) Kristine Torjesen (March 2025 – present) During the COVID-19 pandemic, BioLogos sponsored livestream events featuring the NIH director and BioLogos founder Francis Collins.
Lastly, the Quote Mine Project examines the use of Quote mining – taking quotes out of context – by creationists.
In 1995, Vickers, then a computer science graduate student at the University of California at Irvine, created the TalkOrigins Archive web site.
Philipse's Atheïstisch manifest got him into a fierce argument with several theologians, including Eginhard Meijering, Vincent Brümmer and Harry Kuitert, who replied to him disapprovingly, and eventually faced him in a debate on "the tenability of atheism" in the spring of 1996.
The Roman Catholic Church has witnessed the highest retention rate among all Christian denominations.
However, if one wished to define the word 'God' as something unknowable, God cannot have any descriptive contents and therefore not exist.
Falun Gong On July 20, 1999, the Chinese government, led by Jiang Zemin from 1989 to 2002, commenced the persecution of Falun Gong.
It was originally released as a free download on iTunes but was subsequently released as a promotional 7" vinyl and as a B-side to "First Day of My Life".
A poor Jew suddenly appeared who convinced an ignorant following that he was the Son of God, and who was eventually executed by other Jews.
The man continuously gorges on food until finally his belly explodes, his innards splattering all over the room.
The Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse revealed that between January 1950 and February 2015, 4,445 people alleged incidents of child sexual abuse in 4,765 claims.
History The channel was founded in Cyprus in 2003 by Al Hayat Ministries, an evangelical organization.
Director James McTeigue first met Natalie Portman during the filming of Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, on which he worked as assistant director.
In The Moral Landscape, he argues that science can in principle answer moral questions and help maximize well-being.
doll heads dripping blood and crying to orbiting paper roses, flashes of heat lightning, close ups of lion fur and mane, carousels spinning, lots of eyeballs crying and blinking, and crucifixes".
The Wesleyan Methodist Connection was organized in 1843, largely by those coming out of the Methodist Episcopal Church; grew to some 15,000 members.
And thus the modern spirit has been torn loose from the deepest and strongest supports of its life, from its foundation in the Absolute, in the self-existent Being, in the Value of all values...
The Industrial Workers of the World (commonly known as the Wobblies) concentrated much of its labor trying to organize migrant workers in lumber and construction camps.
He told his boss it was "the most moral record ever made." KMPC in Los Angeles played the record, but some advertisers required that their ads be scheduled more than fifteen minutes away from it.
"Hitchens," noted The Progressive, published his usual stack of important books during the course of 2001.
Corey Taylor sings from the perspective of a man who was sexually abused by a priest when he was a child and now confronts his abuser.
In 2010, two Tibetan laypeople were killed while trying to stop a mass arrest of approximately 300 monks at Kirti Monastery.
He emphasizes the need for a rational framework in religious thought, advocating for doctrines that align with reason and moral clarity.
Ron Hubbard Exposed (1990) by Jon Atack A Queer and Pleasant Danger: A Memoir (2012) by Kate Bornstein ISBN 9780807001653,OL 25139468M Religion Inc.
On 31 October 2011, they demonstrated dressed as French maids in Paris against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, on 5 November 2011, they protested against Silvio Berlusconi in Rome, the following day, they protested against Pope Benedict XVI outside St.
Critique of philosophy and religion In a series of historical works written in the 1830s, Feuerbach developed his own philosophical positions through a critique of other philosophers, a method he called "genetic analysis".
Rather, it is recommended as an essential principle of methodology that, if enacted by a system or community, will lead to slow but steady progress of a sort (relative to how well the system or community enacts the method).
She was vilified in the press as the "high priestess of anarchy", while many newspapers declared the anarchist movement responsible for the murder.
Talk Reason provides a forum for the publication of papers against creationism and intelligent design.
Since Euthyphro seems so assured of himself, and Socrates is facing a trial for impiety, Socrates asks Euthyphro to help him with a definition of "piety" that he can use in his defence.
"Sinner" is a song by American rock band Drowning Pool, released in August 2002 as the third and final single from their debut album of the same name.
The film received generally positive reviews from critics, and grossed $57.3 million on a $13–18 million budget.
Ousby wrote: "But, in however humble a fashion, everyone still had to decide how they were going to cope with life in a fragmenting society ...
In his first religiously critical work, Holbach points out aspects of the Christian faith that he considers contradictory, and particularly criticizes the moral and political influence of the Christian religion and its clergy in harsh terms.
Among Lennon's many possessions, Cleave found a full-sized crucifix, a gorilla costume, a medieval suit of armour, and a well-organised library containing works by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Jonathan Swift, Oscar Wilde, George Orwell, and Aldous Huxley.
In November 2000, a modern version of Purushamedha was organised by All World Gayatri Pariwar at Shantikunja Haridvara, marking the completion of 12 year Yugsandhi Mahapurascharana.
Christian polemical writing at the time took an "unusually severe attitude" toward Islam, condemning whatever Muslims believed, even when it was partially correct according to Christian teaching.
Ian Dury's version It was recorded by Ian Dury, originally on the soundtrack album Apples (1989) and later on The Bus Driver's Prayer & Other Stories (1992).
Ian Cohen of Pitchfork described the song as "a staggering duality of childish innocence and poetic confidence" and an "impossibly catchy song that skips along while carrying the weight of the universe" and awarded it Best New Track.
The American Baptist Anti-Slavery Convention in 1840 brought the issue to the fore, defining a split among Baptists.
The full fifteen-minute pitch demo remained lost until it was uploaded to the internet by Robert Paulson on his personal website in 2022.
External links Media related to Intolerance at Wikimedia Commons The full text of Intolerance at Wikisource Intolerance at IMDb Intolerance is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive Intolerance on YouTube Intolerance at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
The music video was filmed for the single "Leave Me Alone" which it was exclusively premiered on mtvU.com on October 27, 2009, in which was the album's original release date.
Jews believe the Messiah will be a direct (blood) descendant of King David through Solomon on his father's side and will be born naturally to a husband and wife (Genesis 49:10, Isaiah 11:1, Jeremiah 23:5, 33:17; Ezekiel 34:23–24).
Finch asks who V was, and Evey replies, "He was all of us." Cast Hugo Weaving as V, a masked, charismatic and skilled anarchist terrorist who had been the unwilling subject of experimentation by Norsefire.
The Sydney Morning Herald named Family Guy the "Show of the Week" on April 21, 2009, hailing it a "pop culture-heavy masterpiece".
By January 2020, OPEC+ had cut oil production by 2.1 million barrels per day (bpd), with Saudi Arabia making the largest reductions in production.
dollar to make oil in Japan 4.10 times as expensive; In the same period, the Euro gained value over the U.S.
Putin stated that any country refusing to use the new payment mechanism would be in violation of their contracts and face "corresponding repercussions".
In opening developing countries to developed world food imports subsidised by Western governments, developing nations can become more dependent upon food imports if local agriculture does not improve.
In 2020, although China built some plants, globally more coal power was retired than built: the UN Secretary General has said that OECD countries should stop generating electricity from coal by 2030 and the rest of the world by 2040.
The opportunity segment can be scaled to any level depending on the specific interest of the analyst, whether at a global, country, basin, structural domain, play, license or reservoir level.
However, new extraction methods began reversing this trend beginning in the mid-2000s decade, with production reaching 10.07 million b/d in November 2017 – the highest monthly level of crude oil production in U.S.
the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Australia, and New Zealand) during the 1970s, putting an end to the overall post–World War II economic expansion.
crude inventories rose more than expected, and uncertainty about OPEC and COVID-19 lockdowns contributed to lower prices the next day.
In December 2025, Russian energy analyst Craig Kennedy said that new sanctions by the US, EU, and the UK are likely to substantially cut Russia's oil revenues in 2026, while intensifying what he described as the worst crisis in Russia's energy sector since the 1990s.
Initiating a mitigation crash program 10 years before world oil peaking helps considerably but still leaves a liquid fuels shortfall roughly a decade after the time that oil would have peaked.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
This move put immediate economic pressure on Slovakia, which relied on the pipeline for a significant portion of its gas supply and earned an estimated hundreds of millions of euros annually in transit fees from the gas flowing onward to other European destinations.
West Germany reached its production peak in 1966, Venezuela and the United States in 1970, and Iran in 1974.
Jacque Fresco posits that while certain energy resources are deemed scarce, there are other abundant sources, such as geothermal energy, which could remain virtually inexhaustible for thousands of years at current consumption rates.
The USA turned to unconventional reservoirs to achieve their goals, which had been known about for decades but had previously been too costly to be economically attractive.
Fico's government demanded the resumption of gas transit and suggested a mechanism where European, transnational entities would purchase the gas at the Russian-Ukrainian border and pay Ukraine for the transit, thereby sidestepping a direct contract renewal between Naftogaz and Gazprom.
Preexisting factors that may have contributed to the surge included housing shortages, climate impacts, and government budget deficits.
For example, electricity can be converted more efficiently than thermal energy into motion, due to electricity's lower entropy.
Gerard, then with the National Mining Association; Red Cavaney, president of the American Petroleum Institute; and Eli Bebout, an old friend of Cheney's from Wyoming who serves in the state Senate and owns an oil and drilling company.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
In the same year, results from a survey showed that 51% of EU enterprises polled invested in energy efficiency.
In 2023, approximately 32% of EU enterprises have invested in new, climate friendly business sectors and technology, to stay up to date with the green transition.
For example, if steel is being used to drill for oil or construct a nuclear power plant, should the energy input of the steel be taken into account?
On 27 August, Ukrainian media reported that the Ryazan refinery, one of the main fuel arteries to Moscow, had been struck by a powerful explosion.
The Electric Power Research Institute champions the use of smart grid features such as power control devices employing advanced sensors to coordinate the grid.
'Peak car' theory The 'peak car' hypothesis was proposed after declines in traffic during the morning peak period were observed from the mid 1990s in some places and at a national level in the United Kingdom since about 2008.
On 10 November 2024, the government began nationally implementing another round of the same type of blackout.
There are few clear examples of abiogenic methane-ethane-butane, as the same processes favor enrichment of light isotopes in all chemical reactions, whether organic or inorganic.
Impact In November 2025, Reuters reported that Russia's oil processing had fallen only 3% during the year despite the attacks, as refineries averted a steep decline by using spare capacity to offset the damage.
According to the French polling institute BVA, the approval rating for President Emmanuel Macron dropped to 36% in fall 2022 due to the energy crisis and galloping inflation in France.
The fuel crisis has had a widespread impact on Vietnamese society as people change habits and find new ways of production.
The Brunei Shell Petroleum (BSP), which is jointly owned by Shell and the Bruneian government, is the owner and operator of the offshore field.
Chile imports more than 90% of its natural gas from Argentina and depends heavily on it to generate electricity; it has shifted the focus from coal and oil towards gas, and had five gas pipelines built for the specific purpose of getting gas from Argentina.
Similarly, Prime Minister of Slovakia Robert Fico campaigned in the 2023 Slovak parliamentary election on an Eurosceptic platform, halting military aid to Ukraine and pushing for friendly relations with Russia, while criticizing NATO and the United States.
Evans; former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, and former Secretary General of OPEC Rilwanu Lukman.
He believed that if America was not adequately prepared for those demands then the foundations for the prosperity of the country would be threatened.
Central African Republic Fuel shortage and rising food prices exacerbated humanitarian assistance in the country, with some humanitarian flights having been either suspended or postponed due to high fuel price.
However, The New York Times warned the next week that the word "glut" was misleading, and that temporary surpluses had brought down prices somewhat, but prices were still well above pre-energy crisis levels.
Gernot Wagner argued that the benefits of the Act would likely not be felt before the 2024 election, but that the act is a great long-term strategy to decouple from volatile energy markets that drive inflation.
Amounts listed below, in billions of barrels, are the estimated ultimate recoverable petroleum resources (proved reserves plus cumulative production also abbreviated as URR), given historical production and current extraction technology.
This did not prove to be the case: the United States, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Pakistan, and West Germany all refused to make their technicians available to the nationalized Iranian industry.
This new dock worked alongside its larger sister dock, which could handle ships up to 1,200 tonnes, both moored in the Belait River.
The EIA estimates global coal-to-liquids production will climb to 600,000 bbl/d (95,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 2,400,000 bbl/d (380,000 m3/d) in 2030.
Implications to peak oil Peak Oil derives from the Hubbert peak theory, which theorizes that production of any finite resource over time will have roughly inverse curves before and after the peak of the resource's production (creating an approximately bell shaped curve).
President Obama made strict guidelines to standardize fuel economy in vehicles, especially passenger vehicles.
In January 1980, he issued the Carter Doctrine, declaring: "An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States".
All international transportation is grounded, including logistics, meaning resources such as steel, food, medical supplies, and trash are not being moved.
The Obama administration took steps to ensure that America's need for oil would also safeguard the protection of the environment as well.
References Argentina: crisis energética (26 March 2004) (in Spanish) Argentina teme crisis energética (9 May 2005) (in Spanish) Peligro...
After the withdrawal of the British workers in the autumn of 1951, the Iranians felt confident that they could easily hire non-British technicians to run the industry and then quickly train their own nationals to replace them.
According to the FAO, the average minimum daily energy requirement is about 1,800 kilocalories (7,500 kJ) per person.
Leaders are dismissive of system theories that conclude that blackouts are inevitable, but do agree that the basic operation of the grid must be changed.
Production started to increase again in 2009, spurred by high gold prices, and achieved record new highs each year in 2012, 2013, and 2014, when production reached 2,990 tonnes.
Bardi concluded that rapid collapse is not a flaw, or "bug" as he terms it, but a "varied and ubiquitous phenomena" with multiple causes and resultant pathways.
Oxygen levels shoot back up after the water molecules are split into hydrogen and oxygen due to the sun's increased ultraviolet radiation, and the lighter hydrogen escapes to space.
The "Seneca effect" model is related to the "World3" model from the 1972 report The Limits to Growth, issued by the Club of Rome.
Champion-1 Champion-7 (Main Complex Platform) Champion-11 Champion-41 Champion-37 Champion-38 Champion-39 Gallery == References ==
It was capable of handling vessels up to 100 feet (30 m) long and weighing 100 tonnes (98 long tons; 110 short tons).
production curve deviates from Hubbert's 1956 curve in significant ways: When oil surpluses created a glut on the market and low prices began causing demand and production curves to rise, regulatory agencies such as the Texas Railroad Commission stepped in to restrain production.
Many large economies, like the EU, US and China, were unable to support 2005 levels of growth, and China almost fell into its own financial crisis during its 2015 stock market bubble and crash.
On the following day, the organisation issued a statement stating that "The fuel is still not going to the pumps that need it most in London and the South East...
For example, one 24-year-old with a car moved to Washington, D.C., for work purposes but did not take her car, and she explained: I don't need (my car).
The authorities announced widespread closures of schools, universities, and government offices, and shopping centers in the capital Tehran and 17 Iranian provinces to save energy.
However, a lack of refining capacity would only seem to explain high gasoline prices, not high crude oil prices.
Federal Reserve policy helped prices fall the next week, though they rose to end the week due to positive U.S.
The United States imported 28 percent of its oil in 1982 and 1983, down from 46.5 percent in 1977, due to lower consumption.
The theory is disputed by the UK Department for Transport, which predicts that road traffic in the United Kingdom will grow by 50% by 2036, and Professor Stephen Glaister, Director of the RAC Foundation, who say traffic will start increasing again as the economy improves.
Saad al-Kaabi, Qatar's minister of state for energy affairs, described the price war as a "very big mistake" in a June 2020 interview.
Meanwhile, Simmons' Twilight in the Desert seemed to Tierney to be cut from the same doom-and-gloom cloth as Paul R.
The glut directed Algeria into an economic recession and directly influenced the politics: the authoritarian regime of Chadli Bendjedid had to compromise with Islamic opposition in 1984 and start economic reforms dismantling socialism in 1987.
Furthermore, "All twelve people were arrested for breaching the legal notice by driving at under 30 mph for a prolonged amount of time." was said.
The study says that "while violent events, such as global war or natural catastrophic events, are of immediate concern to everyone, a relatively slow consumption of the planetary resources may be not perceived as strongly as a mortal danger for the human civilization".
Another mitigation measure is the setup of a cache of secure fuel reserves like the United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve, in case of national emergency.
On 30 July, the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Ministry expressed willingness to join talks with the European Commission in order to maintain cooperation with Hungary and Slovakia.
These announcements caused increases in world gas prices, which analysts said was a part of the Iranian Government's plan to apply pressure on the world to stop the war.
The war has also affected some exports, with ships taking longer to reach their destination, so the Kenya Ports Authority has prioritised the export of perishable products such as tea, flowers, and avocados.
The Hubbert curve is the first derivative of a logistic function, which has been used for modeling the depletion of crude oil in particular, the depletion of finite mineral resources in general and also population growth patterns.
Thus, furthering the spread of the transition movement while networking related organizations, projects, ideas and activities.
Prime Minister of Slovakia Robert Fico held a telephone conversation with Prime Minister of Ukraine Denys Shmyhal where he strongly asserted that Slovakia would not allow itself to become a "hostage" to Ukrainian-Russian relations.
The 2025 Slovakia–Ukraine gas dispute was a major diplomatic and energy security crisis that began on January 1, 2025, following the expiration of the five-year natural gas transit contract between the Russian state-owned energy company Gazprom and Ukraine's Naftogaz.
Economists state that for prices to return to pre-pandemic levels a deflationary period would be required, which is usually associated with recession.
He called the winter’s outcome “unacceptable” and vowed to “strive to move out of this situation next year” .
King Hubbert's 1956 presentation to the American Petroleum Institute, as an idealized symmetric curve, during his tenure at the Shell Oil Company.
While the possibility of restricting domestic usage was considered, it was deemed unnecessary and disruptive.
He founded the Kyoto Moain (later Kyoto Prefectural School for the Blind and Kyoto Prefectural School for the Deaf) in 1878, and developed the origins of Japanese Sign Language.
At the time, Lexington used exclusively oral education, but the students used sign language when instructors were not present.
He was an active worker in connection with the local institutions of Doncaster, and was a member of the committee for the establishment of a public free library for the town.
In 1834, his parents sent him at eight years of age to Institutet för dövstumma och blinda, Manillaskolan ('the Institute for the deaf-mute and blind', 'the Manilla School') in Stockholm.
She received intensive hearing and speech instruction through a partnership between home and school.
Malm knew there must be more potential deaf students, so he placed an advertisement for the school in the newspaper Borgå Tidning and later requested the Diocese of Porvoo to determine the number of deaf people in the country: 1,466, with 602 under the age of 20.
Newman was awarded on honorary doctor of letters degree by Gallaudet University in 1978 in recognition of his extensive advocacy efforts as an educator and writer.
In the end, he was unsuccessful as Cygnaeus believed it would set back the plan for public schooling.
Social inclusion of people with hearing disabilities In 1918 she was assigned as principal of the National School for the Deaf-Mutes.
References External links Official website Гость программы Борис Михайлович Бим-Бад, академик Российской Академии образования, педагог.
A collection of the most remarkable definitions and answers of Massieu and Clerc, deaf and dumb, to the various questions put to them, at the public lectures of the Abbé Sicard, in London.
Interviewed in 2016, he said: "I've had many jobs working in removals, gyms, swimming pools, security, etc, but now I make my living off teaching and touring my poetry...
His concern for providing a better education would begin the foundations of the Central Institute for the Deaf (CID).
Greene was mentioned in the City of Belleville's Heritage walking guide in recognition of his work in Deaf Education.
Career Rosen started her career as a rehabilitation counselor at the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation, working there from 1964 to 1966.
Awards and honors Gallaudet Distinguished Professor of the Year (1996) Professor Emerita at Gallaudet University Edward Miner Gallaudet Award (1992) == References ==
Through this, he argued that people with hearing disabilities are not "handicapped." This was an idea that was widely applauded and set the precedent for his struggles for the deaf community.
Biography Early life and education Helene Jarmer became deaf at the age of two as the result of an auto accident.
He also began doing computer programming and set up his own bulletin board system, as well as building computers for other deafblind people, instructing them in how to use adaptive technology.
One of six deaf siblings, he was denied schooling until age thirteen when he met Abbé Sicard, who enrolled him in the Institute national des jeunes sourds de Bordeaux-Gradignan, the Bordeaux School for Deaf Children.
He then tried other employment, but his services were again sought by the committee of the institution, when in a difficulty on the failure of their Swiss-born master to control the pupils.
In support of this contention, he sent an essay by one of his students, Bernhard Brill, and said that he doubted whether any non-disabled person "could match his lucid and incisive style." Deutsch became director when the school was transferred to Vienna in 1852.
In 1929, the second school building was constructed on South Euclid Avenue where CID expanded into adult auditory rehabilitation.
At this time the training standards for teachers of the deaf were raised, requiring two years of pre-professional college education and a two-year professional curriculum, to ensure the highest quality education possible for their deaf students.
In negotiations to form a new government, it was agreed that Munyenyembe would take on the speakership.
Goldstein had many memories of his friendship with Keller, but was always "particularly pleased" to recount the story detailing how he taught her to Fox Trot at a ball in Boston.
He entered cabinet just a few years later, becoming Minister for Information and Broadcasting in the government of Hastings Banda.
This organisation founded the Mission Church in Oak Road, Southampton (now demolished), for the continuation of their work in 1891.
In 1912, she participated in a delegation to discuss these ideas with the Minister for Public Instruction, but they were unsuccessful.
She graduated from the Maryland School for the Deaf and also went on to teach in that school for three years.
Previously, he served as President of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf and Vice President and Dean of Rochester Institute of Technology.
She also started to teach literacy classes to help address the number of students coming to the centre who were illiterate.
She wrote the book Life and Education of Laura Dewey Bridgman, the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind Girl (1884) about her experiences teaching Bridgman.
The Abbé Sicard managed to escape any serious harm in the political troubles of 1792, and became a member of the Institute in 1795, but the value of his educational work was hardly recognized till shortly before his death at Paris.
They soon encouraged their friends, Miss Hellman and Miss Humble, to start a Sunday school in Vaasa.
He was superintendent at the Indiana School for the Deaf (1845–1852) and the Louisiana School for the Deaf (1853–1860).
Borg made a trip to Portugal in 1823–1828, where he founded a school for the deaf; thereby Portugal was given the same manual alphabet as Sweden.
The facial scar later provided the basis for his name sign, performed with the manual alphabet for "U" (thumb out), with the pads of the two fingers stroked twice downward on the right cheek.
Frederick John Rose (21 September 1831 – 1 December 1920) was the Headmaster-Superintendent of Victorian School for Deaf Children (formerly the Victorian Deaf and Dumb Institution) from 1860 to 1891.
She was the Coordinator of Minority Achievement and Multicultural Program for Pre-college Programs at Gallaudet University.
The Clarke School's policy was to teach lip reading rather than sign language, which Goodhue agreed was beneficial for the students as it allowed them to participate in society.
Peter Atke Castberg (3 August 1779 – 30 April 1823) was a Danish professor and medical doctor who founded modern deaf education in Denmark.
His parents read lessons to him in the evenings and he completed assignments with a portable typewriter.
Louis Laurent Marie Clerc (French: [lɔʁɑ̃ klɛʁ]; 26 December 1785 – 18 July 1869) was a French teacher called "The Apostle of the Deaf in America" and was regarded as the most renowned deaf person in American deaf history.
Solomon is an American academic and president of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf whose teaching focuses on bringing deaf and hard-of-hearing students into the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
His father, Ajay, wrote to Perkins School for the Blind, and with the financial help of a scholarship to the school, friends and relatives raised the money to send him to the United States.
Recognition In 2006, Vietnam Women's Union named Xậm "the woman who touched the heart of Vietnam" due to her efforts to get an education in light of her disability.
The relevant law was enacted by Christian IX on 17 April 1807, and the education of 10 students thus officially began at Det Kongelige Døvstumme-Institut i Kjøbenhavn ('the Royal Institute for the Deaf-Mute in Copenhagen').
Books Life at My Fingertips, (1958) Doubleday City of the Heart (poetry), (1966) Taplinger Shared Beauty (poetry), (1982) Portal Press References Helen Keller National Center - Robert Smithdas
Among those who gave positive reviews of The Perseverance, Kaveh Akbar said: "It's magic, the way this poet is able to bring together so much — deafness, race, masculinity, a mother's dementia, a father's demise — with such dexterity.
She attended a school for hard-of-hearing students after having been categorized by physicians as being hard of hearing.
Lessons for the Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Children in Speaking, Lip-Reading, Reading, and Writing.
In 2011 he published a history of the World Federation of the Deaf featuring achievements of the Deaf community and national organizations of the Deaf around the globe.
The general address of European schools was, American & Colonial Exchange, Carlton Street, Regent Street, S.
On 3 September 2012, Fianna Fáil and Sinn Féin tabled a motion of no confidence in Minister for Health James Reilly, after yet more cuts in the health service.
She was described as a tender mother to her students, as one of her goals with the school had been to see to their emotional needs as well.
Victor of Aveyron Itard is known as an educator of the deaf, and tried his educational theories in the celebrated case of Victor of Aveyron, dramatized in the 1970 motion picture The Wild Child directed by François Truffaut, who also played Itard.
He remained the institution's director until his death, training a generation of educators in the Oralist system.
It was not a textbook, but, in effect, an essay showing the importance of prompt attention in order that they may understand and make themselves understood in conversation.
He died at Doncaster 27 May 1874, and his old pupils erected a mural tablet to his memory in the institution where he had laboured so long.
He went on to teach at Gallaudet College, before moving to the Rochester Institute of Technology where he helped found the National Technical Institute for the Deaf (NTID).
Antonio Magarotto (30 June 1891 in Pojana Maggiore – 10 May 1966 in Rome) was an Italian educator, founder of the Ente Nazionale Sordi (ENS) and rector of the Padua Deaf institute.
Beatification process The cause for beatification commenced in 1960 under Pope John XXIII and Provolo became titled as a Servant of God; the informative process was launched in Verona to collect documentation and these were sent to the Congregation for Rites for further investigation.
His services to The Deaf Way conference also helped in shaping the deaf culture and setting the precedent for the emerging field of deaf studies.
In 2017, an Abenaki educator lobbied the Vermont Department of Libraries to pull Fisher's name from the children's literature award, which was created in the state over half a century ago.
"On Deaf-mutes, the Strange, and the Modern Deaf Self," in Culturally Affirming Psychotherapy with Deaf Persons, N.
From 1887 to 1891, she attended the local council school and then continued her education as a pupil-teacher at the Midland Deaf and Dumb Institution, later known as the Royal Institute for the Deaf and Dumb in her hometown.
Prior to the establishment of primary schooling in the late 1800s, Alopaeus' goal was to integrate deaf education with public education.
Life Early life Watson was educated in Hackney, London at the school of his uncle, Thomas Braidwood, and from 1784 he worked at the school.
He is remembered as one of the most ardent and visible advocates of American Sign Language (ASL) and was one of the first people to film ASL.
The award is an annual tribute to recognise a woman who has overcome challenges to accomplish extraordinary achievements that are both meaningful and beneficial to society.
Having grown up Deaf, I came to learn Sign Language relatively late, at the age of 23, while I was a graduate student at the University of Iowa.
Impressed with the manual method, Gallaudet studied teaching methodology under Sicard, learning sign language from Massieu and Clerc, who were both highly educated graduates of the school.
He married Benjamine Walgerda Heiberg (1845–1926) on 16 September 1869, the daughter of Caspar Cappelen Heiberg (1814–1855) and Emilie Christine Hansine Bjertnæs (1824–1865).
When opened on April 15, 1817, it was called the "Connecticut Asylum (at Hartford) for the Education and Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Persons", but it is now known as the American School for the Deaf.
This event launched Iosif's active and profound research into the particularities of the Russian Sign Language.
When Gorman returned to Australia, he took up a post at Monash University as a research fellow and lecturer in special education.
She continued to teach Sunday school even after later leaving the Baptist church for the Fria missionsförbundet.
His father was a skilled sailor and Gerry enjoyed boating with him from around 2 years old in Largs, Rhu and Inverkip.
In 1991, Zaitseva completed an internship in the United Kingdom at the University of Bristol's Centre for the Study of Deafness, where she studied bilingual approaches to Deaf education and participated in a project to teach Russian Sign Language to hearing people.
At age sixteen Peet passed the entrance exam for Harvard University but decided to travel with her father as his personal secretary.
Panara was very interested in the theater and developed some of the first plays for deaf actors and audiences.
During a snowball Earth, iridium would accumulate on the ice sheets, and when the ice melted the resulting layer of sediment would be rich in iridium.
Material shifted by subsequent earthquakes and the waves reached to what are now Texas and Florida, and may have disturbed sediments as far as 6,000 kilometers (3,700 mi) from the impact site.
The term "Elatina glaciation" is, however, still used today, for the period beginning around 640 Mya.
Two archaeologists who were featured in the first season, Katya Stroud, a senior curator at Heritage Malta, and Necmi Karul, the director of excavations at Göbekli Tepe, said that their interviews were manipulated and presented out of context.
Assuming an impact origin, other possible ways of dating the event include looking for evidence of ejecta material such as tektites, and deposits from the hypothesised tsunami, which might be found anywhere around the North Sea basin.
Gerrothorax, the last known plagiosaurid, has been found in rocks which are probably (but not certainly) Rhaetian, while a capitosaur humerus was found in Rhaetian-age deposits in 2018.
The spike has been predominantly observed in North America, with just one observance outside the continent in Japan.
Some major regressions of the past, however, seem unrelated to glaciation episodes, with the regression that accompanied the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous being one example.
Scientists realized that hydrogen would escape into space through a process called methane photolysis, in which methane decomposes under the action of ultraviolet light in the upper atmosphere and releases its hydrogen.
The Caledonian Mountains were also growing across what is now the Scottish Highlands and Scandinavia, while the Appalachians rose over America.
The Cambrian–Ordovician extinction event ended the Cambrian period, and led into the subsequent Ordovician period.
They argue that these lakes are the remains of multiple-kilometer-high waves that penetrated deeply into continents as the result of oceanic strikes that they proposed occurred.
Second, the pathogen must have a high infection rate, such that it is able to infect virtually all individuals of all ages and sexes encountered.
References External links Planet in Peril Interview with Sanjay Gupta, Jeff Corwin and Anderson Cooper on Planet in Peril
In the Hirnantian stage the volcanism diminished, and the continued weathering caused a significant and rapid draw down of CO2 coincident with the rapid and short ice age.
According to the Shiva hypothesis, the Earth is subject to increased asteroid impacts about once every 27 million years because of the Sun's passage through the plane of the Milky Way galaxy, thus causing extinction events at 27 million year intervals.
Courrier International notes that Hancock's claims are never questioned on screen: in Ancient Apocalypse, he calls the archaeologists "pseudo-experts" and repeats that they treat him patronizingly, but he does not name them nor explains their arguments.
In Bartoszyce, benthic faunas did not experience an extinction synchronous with the graptolite crisis, and experienced a spike in abundance during the post-extinction period believed to be related to the decline in eutrophication.
Naming The term is derived from the town of Dresbach which is located in southeastern Minnesota on the Mississippi River.
Purported evidence and rebuttals The 2007 paper resulted in cross-disciplinary relevant scientific rebuttals, including from many geologists, astronomers, archaeologists, and paleoecologists.
Effects The Šilalė Event resulted in a decline in conodont diversity and a corresponding increase not just in the diversity of brachiopods but in their absolute abundance as well.
Coprolitic evidence indicates that freshwater food webs had recovered by the early Ladinian, with a lacustrine coprolite assemblage from the Ordos Basin of China providing evidence of a trophically multileveled ecosystem containing at least six different trophic levels.
This suggests that the absence of megafaunal methane emissions may have contributed to the abrupt climatic cooling at the onset of the Younger Dryas.
Under high greenhouse gas emissions, at most a few high-Arctic populations will remain by 2100: under more moderate scenario, the species will survive this century, but several major subpopulations will still be wiped out.
It comprises eight extinction "datum points"—the first four being regularly spaced, every 30,797 years, and linked to the Milankovic obliquity cycle.
sulcipeculiaris Oriozabala, Sterli & De La Fuente 2020 - Late Cretaceous La Colonia Formation, Argentina References Further reading Alarcón Muñoz, J., S.
The oxygen reacted with the methane to form carbon dioxide and water, both much weaker greenhouse gases than methane, greatly reducing the efficacy of the greenhouse effect, especially as water vapor readily precipitated out of the air with dropping temperature.
Soft tissue anatomy The soft part anatomy of Sunella was previously poorly known, but was thoroughly described for S.
As the ejecta cloud cleared and sunlight returned to the Earth, plants, especially ferns, began to flourish once more.
These patterns are explained by the theory of insular biogeography, a concept that explains how evolution progresses when populations are restricted into isolated pockets.
The end of the Devonian Period had extremely widespread trap magmatism and rifting in the Russian and Siberian platforms, which were situated above the hot mantle plumes and suggested as a cause of the Frasnian / Famennian and end-Devonian extinctions.
Loydell suggests many causes of the isotopic excursion, including increased carbon burial, increased carbonate weathering, changes in atmospheric and oceanic interactions, changes in primary production, and changes in humidity or aridity.
References Further reading io9.com: "Why did nearly all life on Earth die 250 million years ago ?" Vancouversun.com: "Canadian researchers spearhead fossil discovery of resilient prehistoric animal."
The end of the Šilalė Event corresponds to the beginning of the Delotaxis detorta conodont biozone, a conodont biozone once erroneously thought to have corresponded to the latest Přídolí.
The findings are that second-order predation is more consistent with extinction than is overkill (results graph at left).
In addition, the formation of salt lakes and salt flats is neither synchronous nor consistent with the hypothesized impacts having occurred about either 9,640 BP or 5,150 BP.
This is further evidence of a major blow to ecosystems of the time – such deposits can only form in conditions similar to those of the early Cambrian period, when life as we know it was only just becoming established.
Those later events involved flexure folding and the northward movement of the Northern Calcareous Alps resulting in it overlying areas of the molasse deposits of Miocene age.
Discovery The crater-like structure was discovered by petroleum geoscientists Simon Stewart and Philip Allen.
The fifth and sixth probably reflect maxima in the precessional cycles, with periods of around 16.5 and 19 ka.
Eutherocephalians radiated very rapidly after the extinction event and increased in both disparity and diversity, filling niches left vacant by scylacosaurids and lycosuchids.
In 2016, a scientific drilling project drilled deep into the peak ring of the impact crater, hundreds of meters below the current sea floor, to obtain rock core samples from the impact itself.
In the later case, he proposes that their purpose was to pass on the knowledge of these pre-cataclysm civilisations, with their builders being the book's titular "magicians of the gods".
The second, larger pulse, the Toarcian Oceanic Anoxic Event (TOAE), was a global oceanic anoxic event, representing possibly the most extreme case of widespread ocean deoxygenation in the entire Phanerozoic eon.
It has been suggested that this was caused by climate change associated with the earliest polar glaciations and a major fall in sea levels, or by competition with taxa dispersing from Asia.
Correspondingly, shallow-water reefs were barely affected, while pelagic and hemipelagic organisms such as the graptolites, conodonts and trilobites were hit hardest.
Effects The Aptian event is most readily detected among marine deposits rather than terrestrial fossil deposits.
Organisms from the lower Cambrian, such as Thaumaptilon, were once thought to be Ediacarans, but this hypothesis no longer has many adherents.
Leonardo DiCaprio and Nina Dobrev serve as executive producers, with Lionsgate, Pilgrim Media Group and Appian Way Productions producing and Discovery+ distributing.
Labyrinthodont amphibians were particularly devastated, while the amniotes (the first members of the sauropsid and synapsid groups) fared better, being physiologically better adapted to the drier conditions.
As the methane reached the atmosphere, the earth became even warmer, which led to the extinction of even more lifeforms on land.
Some writers have attempted to explain this event in terms of climate or sea level change – perhaps arising due to a build-up of glaciers; however, such factors alone do not appear to be sufficient to explain the events.
Dinosaurs: The Final Day with David Attenborough (titled Dinosaur Apocalypse in the U.S.) is a British documentary programme that aired on BBC One on 15 April 2022.
Higher resolution δ13C isotope analysis identifies differences in the organic and carbonate carbon isotope curves (Δ13C), allowing the inference of a sustained drop in CO2 levels coincident with the extinction once sedimentological data are taken into account.
Only the hardiest and most fortunate animals and plants can survive the relentless flames and smoke that enshroud the planet, giving rise to a nuclear winter; for small animals, one of the best methods to escape the horrendous aftereffects of the impact was to build burrows.
Early estimates indicated a loss of marine invertebrate genera between 35 and 47%, while an estimate published in 2016 suggested a loss of 33–35% of marine genera when corrected for background extinction, the Signor–Lipps effect and clustering of extinctions in certain taxa.
The proposals include both catastrophic and gradual processes (similar to those theorized for the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, but with much less current consensus).
He links this to the construction of various ancient monuments, including Göbekli Tepe, Baalbek, the Great Sphinx and the Pyramids of Giza, some of which Hancock claims to be much older than mainstream archaeologists determined.
The positive δ13C excursion found at the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary is one of the main carbon isotope events of the Mesozoic.
Similar fossils have been found at other formations in China but they are relatively uncommon and poorly studied and therefore cannot be confidently assigned to this genus or even Sunellidae.
It was the Phanerozoic Eon's largest extinction: 53% of marine families died, 84% of marine genera, about 81% of all marine species and an estimated 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species.
Immediately after the extinction event, geological records from Bartoszyce evidence a sharp slowdown of ocean mixing.
Although there are other glacial deposits recognized throughout the world at this time, the Huronian is restricted to the region north of Lake Huron, between Sault Ste.
The Julian-Tuvalian boundary experienced high extinction rates among many marine invertebrates, while an extinction among land vertebrates was suggested to occur in the late Carnian.
Arguments offered for this mechanism include the lack of extraterrestrial material at the event site, the lack of a credible impact structure, and the presence of shocked quartz in surface outcrops.
Their body consisted entirely of soft tissues, except for an assortment of phosphatic elements believed to be their feeding apparatus.
The book appeared on the New York Times Best Seller list in the category "Religion, Spirituality and Faith" in December 2015.
Moreover, a 2006 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, Livestock's Long Shadow, also found that the livestock sector is a "leading player" in biodiversity loss.
Possible first appearance of plate tectonic activity in the Earth's crust as plate structures may have begun appearing.
They found evidence for a signal showing an excess extinction rate with a 27-million-year periodicity, now going back 500 million years, and at a much higher statistical significance than in the older work.
Extinctions by severity Extinction events can be tracked by several methods, including geological change, ecological impact, extinction vs.
Nonetheless, despite increased origination intensities and decreased extinction intensities near the end of the "cat-gap" (20–16 Ma), there was still no substantial invasion of hypercarnivorous morphospace until the immigration of felids into North America.
A long-term local effect of the impact was the creation of the Yucatán sedimentary basin which "ultimately produced favorable conditions for human settlement in a region where surface water is scarce".
Casualties The mechanism responsible for the event originated in the deep oceans, and made its way into the shallower shelf seas.
He therefore supposes that they were constructed by theorized civilisations destroyed by the Younger Dryas impact event, or else the survivors of the event and their immediate descendants.
However, species of Hindeodus were among the least abundant fossils (less than 0.25 specimens per kilogram of sample).
The metaphor refers to the mythological Medea (representing the Earth), who kills her own children (multicellular life).
Perceived extinction in the conodont fauna, however, likely represent a change in the depositional environment of sedimentary sequences rather than a genuine biological extinction.
Because both these groups disappear abruptly at the end of the Ediacaran period, 538.8 ± 0.2 million years ago, their disappearance cannot simply represent the closure of a preservational window, as had previously been suspected.
Any grandchildren the criminal may have, over a certain age (again with enslavement for the underaged) and—if married—their spouses.
The victims were so-called collaborators with the Korean People's Army during North Korean occupation.
Antisemitism among individuals involved with HUAC has also been noted, including antisemitic Congressional testimony from Martin Dies Jr.
Elected offices like the President of Ukraine and People's Deputies of Ukraine will not be subject to lustration checks.
Insofar as the various blacklists of McCarthyism were actual physical lists, they were created and maintained by these private organizations.
The report stated that he was executed for showing "disloyalty to First Chairman of the National Defense Commission Kim Jong-un".
By that time, Syria was already facing a growing shortage of consumer and producer goods, such as (in some areas) bread or building materials, and its production in the textile industry had declined.
Merchants, journalists, and even missionaries established themselves in China, especially in the Treaty Ports created by a series of treaties after the Opium Wars.
The New Order had begun with much popular support and high hopes that the troubles of Sukarno's era were over.
Criticism According to General Prosecutor of Ukraine Vitaly Yarema the lustration law adopted by the Ukrainian parliament complied neither with the Ukrainian Constitution nor international law, and he warned "its enactment will have negative consequences".
Indonesia was given the tacit support of the American Government, which saw FRETILIN as a Marxist organization.
Modern times Founded in 1926 the present company has been in the building since 1929, and it was named after Lesya Ukrainka in 1941.
Latvian leader Kārlis Ulmanis requested German Freikorps support for assistance against the Bolsheviks.
On 14 August 1944 SS Chief Himmler received the mandate to have former Social Democratic (SPD) and Communist Party (KPD) officials detained.
Estimates indicate that approximately 5,000 were arrested across Germany, and most were promptly delivered to the closest concentration camp.
Chŏng Ch'ŏl, head of the Western faction and a famous poet whose poems are still studied in Korean schools, was in charge of investigating the case and used the case to purge Easterners who had slightest connection with Chŏng Yŏrip.
Cast Hartoni Ubes as Self Sarjio Mintardjo as Self Gede Arka as Self Asahan Aidit as Self Release The film had its world premiere at the 17th Jogja-NETPAC Asian Film Festival during the JAFF Indonesian Screen Awards competition program on 27 November 2022, where it won for Best Film.
Cases of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union were divulged by Amnesty International in 1975 and by The Committee for the Defense of Soviet Political Prisoners in 1975 and 1976.
14 December executions As the war neared its end and Pakistani surrender became apparent, the Pakistan Army made a final effort to eliminate the intelligentsia of the new nation of Bangladesh.
This list presents the names of the purged members, along with the names of those who died in prison and those who spent time in prison.
Many victims of the Aviators Affair were rehabilitated during the De-Stalinization period of the 1950s.
After the independence of Bangladesh, a list of Bengali intellectuals was discovered on a page of Major General Rao Farman Ali's diary left behind at the Governor's House.
Literacy was widespread, and many Salzburgers owned Protestant books that had been brought in by travelers.
National movements The national movements included the Russian national dissidents as well as dissident movements from Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Georgia, and Armenia.
Initially, the Freikorps captured the town of Straupe and continued their advance toward the town of Limbaži.
According to the Valech Commission, waterboarding was one of the torture methods most commonly recorded by victims of imprisonment and torture.
On 18 August, a convoy carrying about 600 detainees to Abu Zaabal Prison near Cairo resulted in at least 35 deaths.
Similarly Indonesian Professor George Aditjondro, formerly of Salatiga University in Java, concluded from his study of Indonesian Army data that in fact 300,000 Timorese had been killed in the early years of the occupation.
In many cases, simply being subpoenaed by HUAC or one of the other committees was sufficient cause to be fired.
Pattern variables Parsons asserted that there are not two dimensions to societies (instrumental and expressive) but that there are qualitative differences between kinds of social interaction.
The communiqué also strongly criticized the unsatisfactory performance of the state economic sector and promised a number of reforms as well as greater encouragement of foreign investment.
A 1977 booklet from the Indonesian Department of Foreign Affairs, entitled Decolonization in East Timor, paid tribute to the "sacred right of self-determination" and recognised APODETI as the true representatives of the East Timorese majority.
The German Freikorps forces then attempted to seize control of Latvia with the assistance of the local ethnic German population.
Purges of Nazi collaborators, sometimes called national cleansing, were widespread trials of people accused of collaborating with the Nazi occupiers in many European countries after World War II.
According to Yonhap, multiple sources reported he had been executed along with other members of Jang Song-thaek's family.
See also Kim Kyong-hui References External links List of people purged with Jang Song-thaek Archived 28 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine (in French)
Mithridates invaded with a large army and killed Ariarathes, installing his own son – Ariarathes IX – c.
Criticism of the ICJ judgement The Court's finding that Serbia was not directly involved in the Srebrenica genocide have been strongly criticized.
North America Enslaved Africans in the 16th to 19th centuries throughout North America, South America, and the Caribbean were forced to abandon their native languages, religions, and cultural practices.
Professor Isabel de Madariaga (1919–2014) expanded this idea to explain the oprichnina as Ivan's attempt to subordinate all independent social classes to the autocracy.
Each exhibit provides context about the book, including the reasons for its banning and the broader cultural and historical implications.
On 22 August 2016, with the removal of Soviet distinctions from the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Guards titles were removed from the names of the units.
In spite of this, by March 1951, many large cities implemented the campaign upon the urgings of Mao.
A host country may declare any member of a diplomatic staff persona non grata at any time without any explanation.
Alcaraz felt responsible for keeping his fellow POWs alive and make their lives better the best way he could.
The cultural revolution primarily involved the fight against illiteracy, which was necessary for the subsequent scientific and technological development.
Justice Harlan wrote: The evidence was insufficient to prove that the Communist Party presently advocated forcible overthrow of the Government not as an abstract doctrine, but by the use of language reasonably and ordinarily calculated to incite persons to action, immediately or in the future.
On 17 July 2008, the South Korean governmental Truth and Reconciliation Commission acknowledged the civilian massacre.
On 20 February 2006, the National Archives of Korea reported that files concerning the massacre had been found.
Passage Instrumental in drafting the laws were Ukrainian historian Volodymyr Viatrovych and politician Yuri Shukhevych.
Kupreškić, expressly disagreed with the wide interpretation of the 'intent to destroy' as adopted by the UN General Assembly and the German courts.
In his 1997 memoir East Timor's Unfinished Struggle: Inside the Timorese Resistance, Constâncio Pinto describes being tortured by Indonesian soldiers: "With each question, I would get two or three punches in the face.
Ukrainian politician and president of the Ukrainian parliament Volodymyr Groysman, who visited Poland shortly afterward, stated that the law is not intended to be anti-Polish, and was intended to be anti-Soviet and anti-Nazi instead.
This led to the creation of dedicated Helsinki Watch Groups in Moscow (Moscow Helsinki Group), Kiev (Ukrainian Helsinki Group), Vilnius (Lithuanian Helsinki Group), Tbilisi, and Erevan (1976–77).
All the new sources [in Perjury] were marshaled by Weinstein to show that Chambers was a "truthful man." The process of the lawsuit also more firmly established that Krieger had in fact been a member of the Communist Party.
Three mental health laws proposed in the California Assembly in 1955 (Assembly Bills 1158, 1159 and 3300) attracted the attention of the APRF, which regarded them as an attack on fundamental civil liberties.
Early in his career, Jang worked for the Kim Il Sung Youth League (KISYL), first, during the 1990s and early 2000s, as secretary and first secretary of the Pyongyang branch of KISYL.
He also admitted that he modified his reports in accordance with the wishes of the communists, to portray them as democratic socialist reformers.
During the Tang dynasty (618–907), the family punishment was not abolished, but it was only applied to those who plotted against the rule of the emperor.
He rose to the top of the NKVD during the Great Purge and is known to have taken part in brutal interrogations and forgeries involving Stalin's purported enemies.
The Aviators Affair was a 1946 purge of the Soviet air force and the Soviet aircraft industry following accusations that, during World War II, Soviet fighter planes had been of poor quality.
Aftermath Despite surrendering at Far West on November 1, Mormons (especially in outlying areas) continued to be subject to harassment by citizens and militia units.
See also Notes Citations Bibliography Further reading External links Media related to Palmer Raids at Wikimedia Commons
His formal appointment as general secretary of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia (CPY) was confirmed in October 1940, during the Fifth Land Conference of the CPY in Zagreb.
In the November 1950 election, he defeated Republican party candidate Prescott Sheldon Bush, father of U.S.
Justices Black and Douglas wrote concurring opinions that argued that the Court should have gone further and ruled that the membership clause of the Smith Act was unconstitutional.
Jang is likely the son of Jang Myong-hui and Jang Song-kil, which would make him the nephew of Jang Song-thaek.
McCarthyism both reached its peak and began its decline when he launched an investigation into possible espionage and subversive activities at the Army Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories in Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, culminating in 36 days of televised investigative hearings in 1954.
Defamation campaign De Viana was particularly susceptible to defamation due to a pseudonym he used on Wikipedia, which was closely linked to his real name.
Waterboarding caused detainees to asphyxiate, while their heads were submerged into the water several times in a row.
Other operations include Operation Colombo during which hundreds of left-wing activists were murdered and Operation Condor, carried out with the security services of other Latin American dictatorships.
During the assembly, which he ordered to be videotaped, he claimed to have uncovered a fifth column within the party.
He also made special mention of Francesco Castello Aleu, a 22 yr old layman, and German Gozalba, at age 23 just 2 months into the priesthood.
The Prussian government subsequently declared that the Salzburgers were bona fide Lutherans who were entitled to the protection of the Peace of Augsburg.
Wuhan Among the victims of the White Terror in Wuhan was Xiang Jingyu, one of the earliest female CCP leaders.
Kozelsk and Starobelsk were used mainly for military officers, while Ostashkov was used mainly for Polish Scouting, gendarmes, police officers, and prison officers.
Pyotr Vasilyevich Fedotov (Russian: Пётр Васильевич Федотов; 18 December 1900 – 29 September 1963) was a long time Soviet security and intelligence officer, the head of counterintelligence in NKVD/NKGB and head of foreign intelligence as the deputy chairman of the Committee of Information.
Fe3+), reduction of trace elements from less soluble oxidised to highly soluble reduced forms (e.g., Fe3+ to Fe2+, Mn4+ to Mn2+), associative/non-symbiotic N2-fixation, protective antagonism to plant pathogens, enhancement of mycorrhizal infection and growth, and stimulating hormonal effects.
Orange firethorn (Pyracantha angustifolia) is considered to be a weed or potential ("sleeper") weed in several states or territories of Australia, including Victoria, Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales.
scrobicollis, which is monophagous and has been specifically studied since 2002, continues to be blocked, despite researchers' many petitions for approval.
If the animal dies, the plant may gain nutrients as the animal decomposes nearby, though this has not been confirmed.
It is native to much of Africa, Asia (Brunei Darussalam, China, India, Japan, Korea, and the Philippines) and parts of Australia.
Straw is an abundant agricultural waste product, and requires little energy to bale and transport for construction.
Description Echeveria colorata is an evergreen perennial succulent, with a rosette of fleshy leaves growing up to 40 centimetres (16 in) in diameter.
Zinnia bidens – Glossocardia bidens Zinnia liebmannii – Philactis zinnioides Zinnia elegans, also known as Zinnia violacea, is the most familiar species, originally from the warm regions of Mexico being a warm–hot climate plant.
The genus is native to scrub and dry grassland in an area stretching from the Southwestern United States to South America, with a centre of diversity in Mexico.
The outer two-thirds of the leaf blade bears outward-pointing spines which may be an adaptation to prevent herbivores from reaching the centre of the plant.
Agave parryi, known as Parry's agave or mescal agave, is a flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae.
Flowers The very conspicuous cup-shaped inflorescences have a diameter of usually 5–7 cm (2.0–2.8 in) and contain tongue and tubular flowers, which are surrounded by bracts.
Bioplastic Rice straw, an agricultural waste which is not usually recovered, can be turned into a cellulose-based bioplastic with mechanical properties akin to polystyrene in its dry state.
Flower-buds ovoid, angled, Calyx lobes 5, divided to the base, white, ovate; corolla broadly rotate, valvate, lobes 5, deltoid ovate, reflexed, coronate-appendages broad, obtusely 2-auricled below the rounded apex which is lower than the staminal-column.
References Bibliography Data related to Aristolochia acuminata at Wikispecies Media related to Aristolochia acuminata at Wikimedia Commons
Unlike more commonly known species such as common milkweed or butterflyweed, fourleaf milkweed is a woodland denizen.
The milky juice of Calotropis procera was used against arthritis, cancer, and as an antidote for snake bite.
The most commonly used are willows and poplars, which can grow 6 - 8’ per year and have a high flood tolerance.
It is found in the eastern deserts of Egypt, through the East Mediterranean region and into Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
In Nepal it is also a common practice to cook these greens with meat of all sorts, especially goat meat; which is normally prepared in a pressure cooker with minimal use of spices to focus on the flavour of the greens and dry chillies.
The pollen are in a structure named pollinia which is attached to a glandular, adhesive disc at the stigmatic angle (translator mechanism).
Cornus sanguinea, the common dogwood or bloody dogwood, is a species of dogwood native to most of Europe and western Asia, from England and central Scotland east to the Caspian Sea.
The leaves are opposite, 4–8 centimetres (2–3 in) long and 2–4 centimetres (0.8–1.6 in) broad, with an ovate to oblong shape and an entire margin; they are green above, slightly paler below, and rough with short stiff pubescence.
They are flattened uniform ellipsoids, 1–1.9 cm (3⁄8–3⁄4 in) long, .8–1.3 cm (3⁄8–1⁄2 in) wide and 4–6.5 cm (2–3 in) thick.
Cultivation Since it is attractive and drought-tolerant, rosemary is used as an ornamental plant in gardens and for xeriscape landscaping, especially in regions of Mediterranean climate.
It has a deep taproot which makes it tolerant to drought and gives it a good soil structuring effect.
The places where the species is distributed, present a dry, arid, semi-warm climate, with a marked wet season in the summer, where the average annual rainfall is between 380 and 450 mm (15 and 18 in) and its average temperature throughout the year is of 21.2 °C (70.2 °F).
Clematicissus opaca was once classified as Cissus opaca, however a combination of genetic and morphological features led to it being placed within the genus Clematicissus.
Stubble-mulching refers to leaving the stubble or crop residue essentially in place on the land as a surface cover during a fallow period.
It is native to the Mediterranean Basin and is a common plant there, growing on sites comparable to those the European common hawthorn grows on.
Its salt tolerance, coupled with it being an evergreen, make it a good choice for wind barriers in lands close to the sea.
Pollinator plant This species is a food source for adult Crescent Metalmark butterflies (Apodemia phyciodoides).
The plant reproduces vegetatively when branches break off the main axis, or sexually when sporocarps on the leaves release spores.
Description The plant grows up to 2 metres (6+1⁄2 feet) high, exceptionally to 3 metres (10 ft), with many horizontal (divaricate) branches, generally with thorns (spinescent), often in thickets.
Description The plant grows to a height of about 30 centimetres (12 in) and has erect stems with spiny wings.
Taxonomy The plant was first classified as Emplectocladus fasciculata in an 1853 paper by John Torrey based on a collection of the plants of California acquired during the third expedition of John C.
Bambara groundnut is mainly cultivated as intercrop, however the planting density varies between 6 and 29 plants per square meter.
In the United States it is found throughout the west from Washington (state) to California and eastwards to Montana to New Mexico including all the states between.
The 'Profusion' cultivars, with both single and double-flowered components, are among the most well-known of this hybrid group.
The fruit is a juicy drupe about 7–9 millimetres (1⁄4–3⁄8 in) in diameter, normally forming in pairs or clusters.
Season and Harvesting Plants are capable of seed production once they reach a height of about 1 metre (3.3 ft).
The red clover has become increasingly important as a source of economic stability in Chile, which has made the need for pollinators even more important.
There is commercial and scientific interest in this variety, and its genetics are being researched to develop other self-fertilizing varieties that would reduce or eliminate the need for other fertilizers.
Cultivation Texas sage is a popular ornamental plant, commonly used for edge and area plantings in warmer and drier areas; it requires minimal water, is easily shaped into hedges, and blooms over the entire surface.
Description Cajanus scarabaeoides is a very close wild relative species of Cajanus cajan (common name, pigeonpea).
Herb gardens may be purely functional or they may include a blend of functional and ornamental plants.
It is intricately divided into thorn-tipped branches lined with clusters of small, deciduous, gray-green leaves no longer than about 1.5 centimeters.
Cultivation Abutilon pictum is cultivated as a popular ornamental plant, for use in gardens in subtropical and warm temperate climates.
In the center of the city (Puerta del Sol) there is a statue of a bear eating the fruit of the Madroño tree.
The racemes of tubular or funnel-shaped flowers are terminal, and colors are mostly reddish, ranging from fuchsia to pink to red-orange.
As with the closely related Cissus, the vines climb by means of tendrils produced opposite each leaf.
Lavandula multifida, the fernleaf lavender or Egyptian lavender, is a small plant, sometimes a shrub, native to the southern regions of the Mediterranean, including Iberia, Sicily, Northwest Africa and the Canary Islands.
Yucca angustissima is a low-lying species forming colonies of basal rosettes up to 3 m (10 feet) in diameter.
Description Fourleaf milkweed is a perennial herb with an upright stem growing from a fleshy rhizome.
Nathaniel Lord Britton and Joseph Nelson Rose placed the species in the genus Myrtillocactus in the same year References External links Media related to Myrtillocactus schenckii at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Myrtillocactus schenckii at Wikispecies
The feeder layer allows the plants to receive fertilizer without contaminating the stream, while simultaneously removing heavy metals from the water.
Coelospermum reticulatum, commonly known as medicine bush, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rubiaceae native to New Guinea, the Northern Territory, and Queensland.
latifolium Cultivation As befits their origin, they prefer to be cultivated in well-drained soil exposed to full sun but protected from the wind, and need little watering.
Distribution The natural range of Aloe buettneri is mainly West African Savannas especially Senegal, Nigeria and Togo, however, it has been found as far as Central and Southern Africa in countries such as Zambia and Malawi.
Juncus patens is a species of rush, known by the common names spreading rush and California grey rush.
Description Indigofera heterantha is a deciduous shrub growing to 2–3 m (7–10 ft) tall and broad, with pinnate leaves, each leaf carrying up to 21 grey-green oval leaflets, and racemes of purple pea-like flowers in summer.
The species is also called Texas Ranger, Texas rain sage, cenizo, Texas silverleaf, Texas barometerbush, ash-bush, wild lilac, purple sage, senisa, cenicilla, palo cenizo, or hierba del cenizo.
Because the rose hips remain on the plant throughout the winter, they provide food for wildlife during times when little forage is available.
It is found in many Northern California mountain ranges, including the Klamath Mountains and the North California Coast Ranges, the Cascade Range, the Sierra Nevada, the Modoc Plateau, White Mountains and Inyo Mountains.
It has also been found as an introduced species in Ontario, Canada and Hungary in the European Union.
In Toronto streets, setts were used by streetcar routes and disappeared by the 1980s, but are still found in the Distillery District.
The thick, white inflorescences have traditionally been harvested in Arabia for stuffing cushions and saddle pads.
A well-designed potager can provide food as well as cut flowers and herbs for the home with very little maintenance.
Shod horses are also able to get better traction on stone cobbles, pitches or setts than tarmac or asphalt.
Each flower has a single pistil, but six pollen producing stamens which emerge when the petals or sepals are touched.
It grows at the edge of desert dry washes in the eastern Mojave Desert and Sonoran Desert at altitudes below 610 meters (2,000 feet).
scarabaeoides can be crossed with pigeonpea cultivars for this desirable trait, farmers can reduce harvest time and increase overall yield.
Many cattle, goats, and sheep consider the berry of this plant to be a palatable food source, but is only heavily utilized where the annual growth of this plant is abundant.
The seed contains too much cyanide to be edible, although there is some archaeological evidence that the ancient population of the Mojave Desert pounded the seeds into flour and leached it to make it edible.
The recombination frequency from a cross of two rII mutants (a x d) is usually less than the sum of recombination frequencies for adjacent internal sub-intervals (a x b) + (b x c) + (c x d).
charcoal), to interfere with color-based drug tests (mixing thiocyanates and iron salts or cobalt salts forms deep red complexes in solution), to make the mixture undetectable by drug sniffing dogs (activated carbon may sufficiently absorb trace odors).
Meat and dairy products can still be sold in the UK into the human food chain, providing the relevant carcass inspections and milk pasteurisation have been applied.
Its presence intracellularly in phagocytic cells also permits access to the brain and probably transplacental migration to the fetus in pregnant women.
The Board of Health exonerated the distillers, but public outcry led to the passage of the first food safety laws in the form of milk regulations in 1862.
Health concerns The brew is often doctored in unsafe and poisonous ways, and its regular abuse frequently has resulted in alcohol poisoning related hospitalizations, blindness, and death.
Epidemiologists from Health Canada quickly linked the illnesses to restaurant meals of cultured mussels harvested from one area in Prince Edward Island, a place never before affected by toxic algae.
Due to blood shortages associated with the 2020 COVID-19 outbreak these restrictions were temporarily rescinded in 2020.
Feeding After severe dehydration is corrected and appetite returns, feeding the person speeds the recovery of normal intestinal function, minimizes weight loss and supports continued growth in children.
Most foodborne disease outbreaks in Australia have been linked to raw or minimally cooked eggs or poultry.
Seidl, as celebrated conductor of the musical life in New York, became the music director of the New York Philharmonic (NYP) in 1891, where he remained until his death in 1898.
The government of India vehemently responded to the research, calling it "misleading, highly mischievous; a figment of imagination; absurd", further adding that India maintained constant surveillance and had not had a single case of either BSE or vCJD.
Results of the scandal Although there were no official findings of large-scale trouble with meat supplies, the newspapers stirred up public opinion on the subject.
However, the danger of equine-derived antitoxin to infants has not been clearly established, and one study showed the equine-derived antitoxin to be both safe and effective for the treatment of infant botulism.
Death In October 2012, she and her husband Harold Starcher ate at a Bob Evans restaurant in Ripley, where both allegedly suffered food poisoning.
Standards have been established by various organizations that attempt to define the permitted levels of various impurities in a manufactured product.
Death statistics Of the 696 patients admitted at both sites, there was a high mortality rate, numbering approximately one half of the persons treated.
In 2006, two men who apparently ate the fish experienced hallucinations lasting for several days (an effect common with some naturally occurring deliriants).
About 12,000 bottles of fake whiskey labeled "Mister Burdon" were distributed in the provinces of Ankara, Mersin, Antalya and Muğla.
Several clauses of the act were continued from the expiration of those enactments until the end of the next session of parliament after 29 September 1742 by section 3 of the Continuance of Laws (No.
Virginia Rae "Ginny" Starcher (February 23, 1930 – December 19, 2012) was an American politician and schoolteacher from West Virginia, who represented Jackson County and part of Mason County from 1987–1991.
Since the result is usually black, it is generally smuggled as toner, fingerprint powder, fertilizer, pigment, metal moldings, or charcoal.
Lawsuits about botulism against pharmaceuticals Prior to the boxed warning labels that included a disclaimer that botulinum toxin injections could cause botulism, there were a series of lawsuits against the pharmaceutical firms that manufactured injectable botulinum toxin.
In 2021, 860 kg (1,900 lb) of black cocaine disguised as charcoal, in 30 sacks among 1,364 sacks of charcoal, were seized in Spain, one of the biggest cocaine seizures recorded in Castilla y León.
Host–parasite interactions Diphyllobothriasis is postulated to cause changes in neuromodulator concentrations in host tissue and serum.
Fipronil is classed as a WHO Class II moderately hazardous pesticide, and has a rat acute oral LD50 of 97 mg/kg.
Street drugs Depressants Heroin Heroin is commonly cut with quinine, caffeine, dimethocaine, lidocaine, procaine, lactose, inositol, dextrose, mannitol, and starch.
A clear liquid distilled from sugar cane juices, it has a slightly sweeter taste than comparable liquors.
Virginia Starcher died at the Hubbard Hospice House in Charleston, West Virginia on December 19, 2012, and Harold died on May 6, 2013.
Honours Club Winner of the Algerian Cup in 1978 National team Runner-up in the 1980 African Cup of Nations in Nigeria References External links Player's profile - dzfootball
They used available household equipment, starting with a "half a seer" (half a quart) of water and adding a fistful of sugar and a three-finger pinch of salt.
Influenza-like symptoms, including persistent fever, usually precede the onset of the aforementioned disorders.
Biography Benmiloudi was born to an Algerian mother and a Moroccan emigrant father in El Madania, Algiers, where he began playing football.
cholerae serogroups and biotypes, which helps improve the understanding of the evolutionary divergence and metabolic versatility that distinguish epidemic strains from non-pathogenic environmental strains.
Effects on the digestive system include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, dysphagia, tongue abnormalities, and a firm, nontender liver.
Salmonellosis annually causes, per CDC estimation, about 1.2 million illnesses, 23,000 hospitalizations, and 450 deaths in the United States every year.
On egg yolk medium, toxin-producing colonies usually display surface iridescence that extends beyond the colony.
The species most commonly claimed to be capable of producing this kind of toxicity include several species from the genus Kyphosus, including Kyphosus fuscus, K.
Etymology The term desi, a Hindustani term derived from Sanskrit desh (country or region), which is generally an endonym for the compatriot or local is often applied to food or drink that is considered traditional or native.
Prognosis The prognosis depends on prompt diagnosis and treatment, owing to the high mortality from DEG intoxication.
Kumi Kumi is so named for its cheap price, KSh.10/= for a mug, which in 2006 comes to roughly US$0.15.
In July/August 2017 millions of chicken eggs were blocked from sale or withdrawn from the market in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany and France after elevated levels of fipronil were discovered by the Dutch food and product safety board.
The pure cocaine base can be recovered from the mixture by extraction (freebase) or acid-base extraction (hydrochloride) using common organic solvents such as methylene chloride or acetone.
There is no approved drug for the infection; however, Swiss researchers have tested tribendimidine and achieved a 70% cure rate.
Health regulators including the FDA have established requirements on the freezing of fish intended for raw consumption.
In the 1970s, most of the known cases of diphyllobothriasis came from Europe (5 million cases), and Asia (4 million cases) with fewer cases coming from North America and South America, and no reliable data on cases from Africa or Australia.
In October 2013, scientists released news of the discovery of type H, the first new botulism neurotoxin found in forty years.
Visitors to the city were no longer dissuaded from coming and commerce was reestablished as the panic dissipated.
Spanghero On 14 February 2013, the French government stated that France meat processing company À la Table de Spanghero knowingly sold horse meat labelled as beef, and that their licence was suspended while an inquiry took place.
Honey can contain the organism, and for this reason, honey should not be fed to children under 12 months.
On 29 October, Hong Kong authorities discovered a third batch of eggs containing excessive melamine.
On 14 September, the ban was extended to any sale of any alcoholic beverages with an alcohol content above 20% vol.
The presence of specific periplasmic proteins, such as TolA, TolB, TolC, or TonB, are required for translocation across the membrane.
It is consumed by many local tribes in Himachal Pradesh, such as Kinnara, Lahaula, Swangia and Pangwala.
Semiconductors that are p-doped contains a small amount of elements that have less valence electrons then the other elements in the crystal.
This immune adaptation involves developing specific defenses against common local bacteria, viruses, and parasites.
Jyoji Omori (大森 城司, 大森 譲治, 大森 譲次, Omori Jyoji; 1898 – 2 March 1938), Geo Omori or George Omori as he became known in Brazil, was a Japanese-born Brazilian martial artist who is credited for being one of the creators of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.
It is unclear whether the toxins are produced by the fish themselves or by marine algae in their diet, but a dietary origin may be more likely.
Investigators have concluded that as-yet-unidentified individuals cooked up a protocol for a premix, a solution normally designed to fortify foods with vitamins or other nutrients but, in this case, it was poisonous.
Symptoms typically appear within ten to 30 minutes after ingestion, and may include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and tingling or burning lips, gums, tongue, face, neck, arms, legs, and toes.
During this time, Wilfrid was present in the organ loft during Queen Victoria's funeral and memorial service held on 2 February 1901.
History Escherichia coli O104:H21 was discovered in 1982, when it caused an outbreak of severe bloody diarrhea.
cholerae is stimulated by increasing cell density accompanied by nutrient limitation, a decline in growth rate, or stress.
Omori is considered instrumental in the foundation of Brazilian jiu-jitsu by establishing the first Jujitsu school in São Paulo.
It is prepared by boiling barley grains or rice and some local herb known as Phab in water and then fermenting the material.
A 2018 study of two commercially available kits showed low sensitivity with patients diagnose with NCC (neurocysticercosis) especially with calcified NCC versus patients with cystic hydatid disease.
In New York, Barker worked as a stage actress as well as a costume designer, designing the costumes for a 1926 Broadway production of No, No, Nanette.
This contributed to the growing criticism of Secretary of War Alger's handling of the Army during the war (a phenomenon that became known as "Algerism") and by the summer of 1899, President William McKinley decided that Alger had to go.
In 1905, Felix Gotschlich, a German physician at the El Tor station identified vibrios in stool specimen of two pilgrims returning from Mecca.
The illegal version of the product is often called guaro de contrabando ("smuggled guaro") and is produced by various methods, all through distillation, but with different base ingredients, typically fruits or sweets from other sources, molasses from sugarcane, or simply sugar.
Luria speculated that colicins could only be this toxic by causing a domino effect that destabilized the cell membrane.
The scandal As a result, most of the meat arriving in Cuba was found to be so poorly preserved, chemically adulterated, or spoiled so that it was toxic and dangerous to consume.
However, the terminological distinction between classifiers and measure words is often blurred – classifiers are commonly referred to as measure words in some contexts, such as Chinese language teaching, and measure words are sometimes called mass-classifiers or similar.
Fries, the distinguishing of function/structure words from content/lexical words has been highly influential in the grammar used in second-language acquisition and English-language teaching.
The modern situation results from regular apocope which removed a consonant from the masculine and the final schwa of the feminine.
In other languages, especially those with grammatical case, there is usually a separate form (for each declension if declensions exist) of the accusative case.
A transition or linking word is a word or phrase that shows the relationship between paragraphs or sections of a text or speech.
("Storage" and "files" are good examples of how human memory and computer memory have been linked to the same vocabulary; this was not always the case).
In the process of wishing to be associated with a certain class (usually the upper class and upper middle class) people who are moving in that direction socio-economically may adjust their speech patterns to sound like them.
An anti-society is a small, separate community intentionally created within a larger society as an alternative to or resistance of it.
The adverbial suffix -erweise added to adjectives is derived from the feminine singular genitive adjective ending -er agreeing with the noun Weise 'manner'.
Abstand and ausbau languages are concepts developed by sociolinguists to describe related language varieties, ranging from dialects of a single language to distinct languages.
They are descended from but not identical to the historical four tones of Middle Chinese, namely level (Chinese: 平; pinyin: píng), rising (上; shǎng), departing (去; qù), and entering (入; rù), each split into yin (陰; yīn) and yang (陽; yáng) registers, and the categories of high and low syllables.
Like the early records of the languages of exotic cultures, the information usually comes to us as word lists.
The category of transitive verb is defined as an element that requires two NPs (its subject and its direct object) to form a sentence.
There is some debate as to whether to classify it as a relative pronoun like the wh-words, a subordinating conjunction, or a complementizer.
(That they function as adverbs rather than as direct objects is clear from the rephrasing "I work during the day and sleep at night.") The modern British expression "Of an afternoon I go for a walk" has a similar origin, but uses the periphrasis "of + noun" to replace the original genitive.
This may include languages, dialects, registers, styles, or other forms of language, as well as a standard variety.
Research suggests that language is heavily peppered with such bundles in all registers; two examples include "do you want me to", commonly found in speech, or "there was no significant" found in academic registers.
List of modal particles Halt, eben and einmal[1] (in this context always in full) and nun einmal (shortened: nun mal) imply that the often-unpleasant fact expressed in a sentence cannot be changed and must be accepted.
In the field of sociolinguistics, social network describes the structure of a particular speech community.
Derivational suffixes fall into two categories: class-changing derivation and class-maintaining derivation.
How's it going?) At first, the receptionist uses a relatively formal register, as befits her professional role.
She argues that L2 writers often reorganize ideas and revise structure while composing, unlike L1 writers who may rely more on intuition and automatic grammar use.
For example: cuci → nyuci (to wash) tulis → nulis (to write) kopi (coffee) → ngopi (to drink coffee) sapu (broom) → nyapu (to sweep) tongkrong (hangout) → nongkrong (to hang out) pacul (hoe) → macul (to hoe) See also Apophony == References ==
In its place, the terms coordinating conjunction (coined in the mid-19th century) and correlative conjunction (coined in the early 19th century) became more commonly used.
There is also a distinction in meaning in the third person on whether or not the third-person possessive pronoun is used: He ottivat (omat) takkinsa.
Members of the working class tend to speak less of what is deemed standard language, while the lower, middle, and upper middle class will, in turn, speak closer to the standard.
Prowords are voice versions of the much older procedural signs for Morse code which were first developed in the 1860s for Morse telegraphy, and their meaning is identical.
Conjunctions The following conjunctions can be reconstructed: †Placed after the joined word, as in Latin Senatus populus-que Romanus ("Senate and people of Rome"), -que joining senatus and populus.
working on the LGSWE worked with four (these are not exhaustive, merely exemplary): conversation, literature, news, academic.
A word with a zero-morpheme is analyzed as having the morpheme for grammatical purposes, but the morpheme is not realized in speech.
In Javanese and colloquial Indonesian, simulfixation productively occurs to form active verbs and to derive verbs from noun bases.
One accessible format that offers an alternative to jargonized language is "easy read", which consists of a combination of plain language and images.
As with other types of language variation, there tends to be a spectrum of registers rather than a discrete set of obviously distinct varieties—numerous registers can be identified, with no clear boundaries between them.
This is similar to modern languages; compare English He is above in the attic (adverb) and The bird is above the house (preposition).
Korean noun particles include the subject particle i/ga (이/가), the object-marking particle eul/reul (을/를), and the topic-marking particle eun/neun (은/는), all of which show allomorphy.
Different endings mark words as the thing performing an action (subject), things directly receiving the action (direct object), things indirectly receiving the action and objects of prepositions (indirect object), objects of prepositions, and things possessed by other things (genitive).
= "They told they would come (themselves)." (The doer cannot be mentioned, even for emphasis, when it is the same as previously.) He kertoivat heidän tulevan.
Therefore, the Latin ending -anus became -ão in Portuguese and its feminine -ana became -ãa and then -ã.
The grammar of L 2 {\displaystyle L_{2}} , which has the form of a theory describing the syntactic structure of such factual descriptions, is stated in the meta–meta–metalanguage L 3 {\displaystyle L_{3}} , which likewise is a sublanguage of L 0 {\displaystyle L_{0}} .
Inflectional bound morphemes Inflectional morphemes modify the tense, aspect, mood, person, or number of a verb or the number, grammatical gender, or case of a noun, adjective, or pronoun without affecting the word's meaning or class (part of speech).
Social networks are at work in communities as large as nation-states or as small as an online dating service.
Trager for the stress pattern of a word, which he regarded as a special morpheme that combines and unifies the parts of a word.
Examples of simulfixes in English are generally considered irregularities, surviving results of Germanic umlaut.
Linguistic prescriptions also form part of the explanation for variation in speech, particularly variation in the speech of an individual speaker (for example, why some speakers say "I didn't do nothing", some say "I didn't do anything", and some say one or the other depending on social context).
They include: man → men, woman → women louse → lice, mouse → mice foot → feet, tooth → teeth The transfixes of the Semitic languages may be considered a form of discontinuous simulfix.
They may range from basic trade languages with limited vocabulary, to fully-fledged language systems, known as pidgins and creoles.
The time expressions morgens, mittags, abends, nachts, eines Tages (one day) and eines Nachts (one night; analogized with eines Tages, though Nacht is feminine) use the adverbial genitive.
In linguistics, languages are often studied in terms of seven major subsystems, which relate to major subfields within linguistics.
Most researchers agree that for most adults, acquiring a native-like accent in a non-native language is near impossible.
Sociolinguists concerned with grammatical and phonological features that correspond to regional areas are often called dialectologists.
Japanese particles Like Korean, Japanese noun particles follow the noun being marked, and can serve any of several functions in a given sentence.
Non-group members may also extensively employ features from an ethnic group's repertoire in their speech if they spend much of their time with the group members.
For example, omitting kan in the case of 時間 jikan would be a mistake, whereas shūkan and shū are both in frequent use.
There are linguists who suggest that a reduction of the domain of the term converb to adverbials does not fit language reality (e.g.
- orphan f.) charlatão - charlatã (conman - conwoman) The root cause of this disfixation is the loss of intervocalic -n- in the evolution of Latin to Portuguese.
From the latter part of the 18th century, grammar came to be understood as a subfield of the emerging discipline of modern linguistics.
Segments are called "discrete" because they are, at least at some analytical level, separate and individual, and temporally ordered.
This periphrastic form has variously been marked as used "particularly in isolated and mountainous regions of the southern United States" and as having "a distinctly literary feel".
See also Seme – Smallest unit of meaning Chroneme – Distinguishing feature of a sound system by vowel or consonant length References Further reading Chen, Tsuhan; Rao, R.
Contact languages have varying degrees of complexity, depending on the duration and intensity of social relations between the two groups.
In some case, the word used can be misleading; for example, a real number has nothing more (or less) real than an imaginary number.
When the contact language results from the merger of dialects that were already close to begin with, the resulting contact language is known as a koiné.
In English, the mnemonic acronym FANBOYS can be used to remember the most commonly used coordinators: for, and, nor, but, or, yet, and so.
Lemma retrieval, as explained through a spreading-activation theory, is part of a network of separate elements consisting of the abstract concept, the lemma and the lexeme.
Subsequently, he coined numerous -gate terms, including Billygate, Briefingate, Contragate, Deavergate, Debategate, Doublebillingsgate (of which he later said "My best [-gate coinage] was the encapsulation of a minor ...
Thus words such as pet, bell, and men are difficult for lip-readers to distinguish, as all look like alike.
English function words may be spelled with fewer than three letters; e.g., 'I', 'an', 'in', while non-function words usually are spelled with three or more (e.g., 'eye', 'Ann', 'inn').
Thai Thai has five phonemic tones: mid, low, falling, high and rising, sometimes referred to in older reference works as rectus, gravis, circumflexus, altus and demissus, respectively.
According to Dollinger, "pluriareality" is counter to "pluricentricity" and the latter violates the uniformitarian principle; it is an "empty term" and does not meet basic epistemological requirements.
However, even since that case established that acts under the prerogative could be justiciable, it has been held in subsequent cases that Crown acts of state fell into a narrow exception to this rule.
The Autism Awareness Campaign – United Kingdom was launched in 2000 by British parents and carers Ivan Corea and his wife Charika Corea in response to the autism diagnosis of their son, Charin.
Though some anticipated creation of public interest duties, the Report took the approach of asking whether institutional investors were acting in the best interests of their beneficiaries.
In April 2021, amendments were proposed to the Domestic Abuse bill to add serial domestic abusers and stalkers to the register, to give family court judges training on dealing with sexual abuse and to provide greater protection for migrant domestic violence victims.
Attorney-General Sir Rufus Isaacs, advised the king that it would be unconstitutional for him to give evidence in his own court.
Three of these countries; Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales, have their own devolved legislatures and governments and are represented in some international intergovernmental organisation separately from the United Kingdom as a whole.
Origin of the bill The vestry committees evolved in ecclesiastical parishes out of the feudal system and the removal of the influence of the Church after the Reformation.
(In distinction, burghs of barony were granted to a tenant-in-chief, a landowner who held his estates directly from the crown, and had fewer civil and criminal law powers).
With membership still limited to retired servicemen and immediate family, the club assumed the present name in 1970, when membership was opened to serving personnel and families.
It soon became a regular practice for them to appoint a knight to attend in the Exchequer and carry out their duties.
In 1275 Isabel de Forz, the eldest daughter of Baldwin de Redvers, 6th Earl of Devon, and 8th Countess of Devon in her own right, alienated her chamberlainship-in-fee to her steward, the moneylender Adam de Stratton.
Appeals can be made to the local police force by an offender after inclusion on the register for 15 years.
Ivan Corea met with the British prime minister-in-Waiting, Gordon Brown in June 2007 to urge him to launch the national strategy and 10-year plan on autism, particularly in building state-of-the-art "autism schools".
The Senior President can also represent the views of tribunal members to Parliament, the Lord Chancellor and government ministers.
Nootka crisis with Spain, 1789–1795 The Nootka Crisis was a crisis with Spain starting in 1789 at Nootka Sound, an unsettled area at the time that is now part of British Columbia.
62–64 Smith, William Charles; Bateson, Mary (1911), "Borough" , in Chisholm, Hugh (ed.), Encyclopædia Britannica, vol.
The Financial Services Act 1986 (FSAct) followed the white paper, receiving royal assent in November 1986.
In 2006 new guidelines were issued for the retention of records until the subject reached 100 years of age, but after 5 or 10 years, depending on the severity of the offence, they would be used only for DBS checks.
It reviewed the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and of the audit committee, aiming at improving and strengthening the existing Combined Code.
In 1979 part of the BBC's adaptation of the final episode of John le Carré's "Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy" was shot there.
Regional seats of government or RSGs were the best known aspect of Britain's civil defence preparations against nuclear war.
See also Autistic rights movement Autism Awareness ribbon Consciousness raising Health inequality in the United Kingdom Outline of autism World Autism Awareness Day References External links Autism Awareness Campaign UK: Campaigning for all people with Autism (official website)
Back in 2001 UK pension funds were only investing 0.5% of their portfolio into venture capital, whereas the US equivalents invested 5%.
It was a subject of persistent reports of torture by the prisoners confined there, which included war crimes suspects from the SS and Gestapo held in the facility after the war.
In addition the SIB also recognised other bodies that conducted day-to-day regulation of investment business:- Recognised professional bodies (RPBs) (nine in total including the Law Society) Recognised Investment Exchanges (RIEs) Recognised Clearing Houses (RCHs) References Swift, Hollie.
In recent years, the doctrine has been used in cases involving alleged tortious acts committed by British forces in Iraq or Afghanistan, such as in Rahmatullah (No 2) v Ministry of Defence; Mohammed v Ministry of Defence.
The panel will be an ad hoc collection of professionals chosen to meet the young person's needs; typically their parents, teachers, youth workers, social workers, Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) workers, or other relevant people will be involved.
Vehicle File: Provides details on the registered keeper of a motor vehicle, as well as storing other information from the DVLA as to the vehicle's status (Tax Expired, V23 Submitted, Stolen, Chassis Number, Engine Number etc.).
Intelligence and Operations Sub-Section, responsible for recording and analysing information and preparing instructions.
Because of its convenience as a BBC facility, Wood Norton was used for some of the filming of the 1970 Doctor Who serial Spearhead from Space.
The King, with the advice of Home Secretary Winston Churchill, issued proceedings against Mylius for criminal libel and said he was prepared to go into the witness box to disprove the allegations.
Collar numbers are allocated as follows: Metropolitan Police A number, followed by one or two letters indicating the station/sector, borough, or unit.
7700) and much was published in series of verbatim testimonies released as command papers throughout 1949.
Many are connected with safety or engineering and, as such, are considered important documents for those working in those areas.
These acts were promoted by William Sturges Bourne, MP and Chairman of a Committee to reform the Poor Laws, and are therefore also known as the Sturges Bourne Acts.
Industrial Civil Defence Service The Industrial Civil Defence Service was a similar organisation to the Civil Defence Corps, but separate from it.
But by the late Middle Ages the office holder was elected from among a hundred's notable landholding families.
A police officer of one of the three legal systems has all the powers of a constable throughout their own legal system but limited powers in the other two legal systems.
National security concerns There are some cases in which publicity in a courtroom proceeding can be detrimental.
The road was labelled "Britain's most expensive road" by the Glasgow Evening Times and Green MSP Patrick Harvie said the money should instead have been used to fund active and public transport improvements.
A number of European Union countries such as Spain, Germany and Italy had stated that sex offenders' registration as in the UK was a breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Other examples of 16th century goldsmith work were used to inform the fine details, particularly the Crown of Scotland.
The parliamentary under-secretary of state for digital ID is a junior position in the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology and the Cabinet Office in the British government.
See also War Office Directorate of Military Intelligence (United Kingdom) References External links Cobain, Ian (12 November 2005).
YISPs were originally piloted in April 2003, and following the successful pilot there were (as of March 2009) 122 YISPs in the UK.
The squatters moved in while the embassy was vacant in 1976, and in 1988 they would have gained title to the building following twelve years of continuous occupation.
The plan was stress tested by government in late 2022 to deal with possible outages caused by fuel shortages as a consequence of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
1510 – 1576), Lord Justice Clerk George Buchanan (1506–1582), historian and humanist scholar John Scot, Lord Scotstarvit (1585–1670), judge and satirist See also Chancery (medieval office) Lord Chancellor of Scotland == References ==
In recent years, when governments try to cope with thorny problems such as terrorism, there are concerns that the principle of open justice can be undermined relatively easily by national security concerns.
Higgs viewed the earlier scandals, which led to the Cadbury Report could have been avoided had a Code been in place.
A territorial police force is a police service that is responsible for an area defined by sub-national boundaries, distinguished from other police services which deal with the entire country or a type of crime.
This right is covered in two parts: Public authorities must regularly publish updates and information regarding their activities, and Members of the public can make requests for information and updates regarding the activities of public authorities.
Since Members of Parliament are not permitted to resign, they are instead appointed to an "office of profit under the Crown", which requires MPs to vacate their seats.
However, the commission did not believe that the United Kingdom's media could be characterized as being a monopoly and dismissed claims that advertisers had undue influence.
The LGCL was merged with the Government Category List, and the seamlessUK taxonomy to form the Integrated Public Sector Vocabulary (IPSV) as part of the UK Government e-GMS initiative.
The accommodation was extended, with construction starting in 1954 on an adjacent site, and the Memorial Wing being opened by Prime Minister Winston Churchill in 1956.
Lord mayor is a title of a mayor of what is usually a major city in a Commonwealth realm or the former British Empire, with special recognition bestowed by the sovereign of the United Kingdom.
History By 1536, King Henry VIII had broken with the Holy See, seized assets of the Catholic Church in England and Wales and declared the Church of England as the established church with himself as its supreme head.
It has a long history dating back hundreds of years, and it has been traced to decisions made before the signing of Magna Carta in 1215.
Locations Sites for dispersing government were selected in 1966 based on their existing accommodation, independence from the national power and water grids, nuclear fallout protection and distance from likely targets.
While the UK still intended to hand over the Chagos Islands, it sought to retain the joint UK-US military base on Diego Garcia for at least 99 years.
It also acts as the provincial police service in every province except for Ontario, and Quebec, which operate provincial police services, as well as Newfoundland and Labrador, which is served by the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary.
Critics, including Trump’s Secretary of State Marco Rubio, warn of security risks due to Mauritius' ties with China.
Before and after the end of the Second World War various radio stations were set up, some using the FBS name, others using the name British Forces Network (BFN), but by the early 1960s these had all adopted the BFBS name.
2024 18 December - Mauritius’s newly elected Prime Minister Navin Ramgoolam reopens talks with the UK, issuing counterproposals to the existing deal for Britain to transfer control of the islands.
Despite the limitations coming from outside the League, he largely decided how he would run the office since he was very seldom under any kind of supervision.
Wood Norton Hall itself was a privately owned hotel and conference centre, but closed in 2005, reopening under new management the following year.
Randal suggests increasingly ridiculous scenarios, all the while cajoling Dante for selfishly dooming humanity by withholding the car and its inspiration from the masses if he refuses.
The film was released theatrically on 27 February 2026 and began streaming on Netflix on 27 March 2026.
At night, Leng Heng dreams of his previous lives and of a solid gold Buddha, which he is convinced will help prevent his family from being evicted.
Initially, the film was planned to be released in June, coinciding with Vijay's 50th birthday; however, it was delayed due to the extensive post-production and VFX works.
Robin attempts to point out to Jimmy that the cartoons are taking advantage of him, but he denies this and leaves for his television debut, and Sonny takes Robin hostage.
Empire also ranked him 18th in its "The 100 Greatest Movie Characters" poll, and the film ranks at 17 on the magazine's 2008 list of the 500 greatest movies of all time.
However, in theatres in the U.S., it was shown in black-and-white, allegedly to 'save money duplicating prints'.
The film was submitted as a script to the MMFF hence it was among the first four of eight entries announced in July 2025.
Reception Box office Mile 22 grossed $37.6 million in the United States and Canada, and $28.7 million in other territories, for a total worldwide gross of $66.3 million.
It is directed and co-written by Rawson Marshall Thurber, who produced with Todd Lieberman, David Hoberman, and Bob Koplar for Amazon MGM Studios.
There is nothing to think about, no nuances to contemplate, no connection with these characters who exist only in moments of hyper-tension and crisis, no greater truths to consider other than to prevail." The performance of Uwais received some praise.
Plot In fictional Hadleyville, Pennsylvania, the local auto plant, which supplied most of the town's jobs, has been closed for nine months.
An alcoholic boat captain named Ray (Casper Van Dien) and his sidekick Pablo (Jorge Eduardo de los Santos) are enlisted by a voodoo priest named Tiny (Tony Almont) to obtain the heart of the Sharktopus.
While Porter is gone, Mike manages to get in his apartment and steal several thumb drives containing evidence, escaping just as Porter returns to his apartment after realising a ruse.
References External links State of Siege: Temple Attack at ZEE5 State of Siege: Temple Attack at IMDb
The guests finally decide to leave, but after being unable to contact anyone via radio, decide to wait until the next morning.
Edgerton as himself (uncredited) Tex Harris (uncredited) Charles Lacey (uncredited) June Preisser (uncredited) Pete Smith as narrator (uncredited) References External links Quicker'n a Wink at IMDb Quicker'n a Wink at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) Video on YouTube, posted by MIT
Rex uses the GPS unit from Travis' bag and his laptop to gain access to the internet to find out more about the show but is unable to find any evidence of their show online.
Jeevi of Idlebrain.com gave the film a rating of 2.75/5 and said that "The movie looks very artificial except a few scenes where the love of Naresh towards his mother is projected".
Jay Leno later offered to have Smith go ahead with filming for airing on The Tonight Show and it premiered there on February 27, 2002.
He eventually committed to the film due to find a Christmas film as fitting for the MMFF, an event which traditionally starts on December 25.
Living solitary lives in one-room "shoebox" apartments, they both contemplate the changing cityscape, and struggle with anxiety and loneliness, feeling disconnected from other people in the digital age.
Gwen is jealous of Paul's unusually close relationship with X-CaliBR8, to whom Paul has given a female voice, and fears that their relationship will be destroyed by Paul's reliance on X-CaliBR8 for his various day-to-day activities.
The anonymous reviewer went on to write that 'Leder's direction is first-rate; his writing sensible and true to the situation.
Much like Apple Inc's Knowledge Navigator concept, Tom acts as a butler within a virtual space populated with hypermedia: linked text, sound, pictures and movies represented by animated icons.
The Rise and Rise of Bitcoin's writers were advised by academics and consultants, such as Daniel Mross, Charlie Shrem, Alex Waters, Jered Kenna, Trace Mayer, Andrew Lokenauth, Nicholas Mross and Patrick Lope.
MPAA rating The climactic shootout was considered intensely graphic by the MPAA, who considered giving the film an X rating.
First, they capture girls on film and blackmail them, then abuse them, both physically and mentally.
But with the police detective on his tail, Biggerman, the man who built RPM, and also his sister Claudia (Famke Janssen), who wants the money, on his tail, he will find it very difficult to steal the car.
Other characters include a racehorse that loves sardines, a friendly bordello madam and her amiable employees, and a man with a horse who lives near an impassable sinkhole full of mud for which he charges expensive rates to get both carts and cars through.
The DVD features an audio commentary by director Jamie Travis, writer Katie Anne Naylon, and stars/producers Miller and Graynor, five deleted scenes, and a "look inside" featurette.
Along the way, he meets Charkos' girl (Emmanuelle Seigner), who wants her car back (which Luke has stolen, but Claudia took it).
He then flies to OCP's headquarters and confronts the waiting McDaggett who arms a small fusion bomb sent by Kanemitsu as a last resort.
Cast Cameo appearances Additionally, late actor Vijayakanth was featured in the film as a Nuclear Scientist as a tribute with the use of artificial intelligence in a short appearance as M.
Legacy Sequels Now You See Him, Now You Don't (1972) The Strongest Man in the World (1975) Television films This film was remade as the television film The Computer Wore Tennis Shoes in 1995 starring Kirk Cameron as Dexter Riley.
The Frozen Dead is a 1966 British science fiction horror film written, produced and directed by Herbert J.
Upstairs, Lisa assures them that Chet will soon return to normal, and, realizing that her purpose is complete, tearfully hugs both Gary and Wyatt before de-materializing.
Gudipoodi Srihari of The Hindu opined that "Histrionically speaking, it is the senior Naresh who steals the limelight, with a peculiar make-up given to his role of Babu Rao".
Story of the Gun: Before the Dawn of the Apes (Year 10) or The Gun, is the third short film in the series.
Explaining her phobia of elevators, she takes the stairs, to Lucas' dismay; as he waits at their table, she is overcome with anxiety and leaves.
After a misunderstanding, they explain their story and verify it through Wonder Woman's Lasso of Truth.
It stars Sylvester Stallone and Curtis Jackson reprising their roles from the first film, with Dave Bautista, Huang Xiaoming, Jaime King, Jesse Metcalfe, Titus Welliver, and Wes Chatham joining the cast.
Censorship boards believed that it was too extreme and several scenes were shortened or modified to receive an acceptable theatrical rating.
In the past, Giulia manages to restart the car after it had stopped working and resumes her journey.
Verhoeven was still uninterested until his wife Martine read it and encouraged him to give it a chance, saying he had missed the "soul" of the story about someone losing his identity.
The film is loosely based on the terrorist attack at Akshardham Temple in 2002 Akshardham Temple attack in Gandhinagar.
During the tournament, a trigger word ("applejack") causes him to unconsciously recite details of Arno's gambling ring on live television.
Jane is confronted by Tom, who professes his love for her and explains that Rebecca was "too weak" and did not fulfill her pact with Satan.
Lauren and Katie call each other at the same time, engaging in a phone conversation full of unintentional innuendo before they meet each other on the street and hug.
Riley single-handedly leads Medfield's team in victories against other colleges, to his teammate's growing resentment.
Critic Lav Diaz gave the film a mildly positive review, commending it for being hilarious despite its imitation of numerous screen works such as Police Academy and The Six Million Dollar Man while criticizing the third act for being boring.
The film was released in United Kingdom as a straight-to-video release by Tartan Video (under their Asia Extreme Label) on February 25, 2002, in both VHS and Region 0-DVD format.
In March 2022, it was announced that a live-action adaptation was officially back in development, based on a story by Rawson Marshall Thurber.
Music "finale" by Japanese rock group L'Arc-en-Ciel, was used as the film official theme song, and it was released as Double A-side single, three days before the film's release.
After being released, Mike returns home to find Kaitlyn and Rose tied and gagged by Porter, who holds them at gunpoint.
She helps him steal the RPM in exchange for bringing her car back and the two eventually start a romance.
Theatrical release The film was released in theatres on 4 July 2025 under the title Akshardham: Operation Vajra Shakti.
Before the Dawn of the Apes, or simply Before the Dawn, is a series of three 2014 short films produced by 20th Century Fox and Vice Media's Motherboard, which take place after the events of Rise of the Planet of the Apes and before the events of Dawn of the Planet of the Apes.
Ayaz Khan portrayed the teenage version of Vijay's younger character Jeevan, with his face digitally morphed to resemble Vijay.
The Taurus was chosen because of its futuristic, aerodynamic styling for the vehicle's first production year.
The mayor threatens to kill Hunt, but Willie, one of the workers, intervenes, insisting that Hunt is not to blame for the closure.
The film was conceived by cartoonist Roberto Recchioni, who began a version of the film in the form of a graphic novel for Sergio Bonelli Editore, written together with Mauro Uzzeo and drawn and colored by Lorenzo Ceccotti, incorporating the film’s costume designs by Anina Pinter.
Reception The film received generally positive reviews and holds 68% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 22 reviews.
In hindsight, Hyperland does describe a number of features of the modern web and, apart from some underestimates of graphics and processing power available, the documentary paints a not inaccurate picture of hypermedia and hypertext and how they are used today.
The Bandit's car was a second-generation Trans Am and the prize for completing the run was a new truck rather than $80,000.
Additionally, in the United States military, chaplains must be endorsed by their religious affiliation in order to serve in any facet of the military.
hēgoúmenos), is the title for the head of a monastery in the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic Churches, or an archpriest in the Coptic Orthodox Church, similar to the title of abbot.
someone who has completed advanced training (dars kharij) in the hawza and has acquired the license to engage in ijtihad (ʾijāz al-ʾijtihād) from one or several ayatollahs.
The rituals are performed with money, liquor, animals, and in some places, human sex slaves called trokosi, fiashidi, or woryokwe.
"They go back to the archivist-soothsayers of antiquity, one of whom supposedly was Laozi himself; under the Shang and Zhou they were the only ones who knew divination and writing".
The historical tradition of the mystagogue has carried on today in one way through the fraternity system in American universities, that have historically held a position for a mystagogue at either the chapter or the national level.
For the Bramins cannot endure to remain with others, nor to speak much; but when this happens to take place, they afterwards withdraw themselves, and do not speak for many days.
Scholars suspect that the same techniques were used by the monks of all early Buddhist schools to fix and transmit the contents of the Agamas, but outside of the Theravada tradition little information about the pre-literary period of these traditions is available.
Her granddaughter, Melania the Younger, was married at the age of thirteen and had two sons, both of whom died at a young age.
In Anishinaabe ceremonial communities, the water drum may be passed down from one generation to the next.
Differences between terms While iyaláwo and ìyánífá are often used interchangeably, the terms have different denotations and connotations.
Pummer uses a spelling for the name of the high priest that is based on the English Bible for the bearers of biblical names, while he chooses a more scientific transcription for the full name (last column).
The clatter of castanets, words too foul for the strumpet that stands naked in a reeking archway, with all the arts and language of lust, may be left to him who spits wine upon floors of Lacedaemonian marble; such men we pardon because of their high station.
Decline No fixed date has been established for the end of the bhāṇaka tradition, but scholars generally believe that the tradition went into decline as the Buddhist canon increasingly began to be preserved through written texts.
Geography Komana is located on a natural hill just south of the Gümenek village, on the west bank of the Yeşilırmak (ancient Iris), 9 km northeast of Tokat on the road towards Niksar (ancient Neokaisareia) (Proc.Pers.i.17.14).
Some fangshi practices like shefu (射覆; "shoot cover") were closer to parlor magic than esoteric techniques.
The child evangelism movement, which focuses on evangelizing children between the ages of 4 and 14 years old, originated in the 20th century.
Sheikhs duplicate the Prophetic realities, and are also expected to perform and act as an intermediary between the Creator and the created, since the sheikh has arrived close to God through his meditations and spiritual travels.
The Åbtå order, descended from the 113th High Priest Tsedaka ben Tabia, which has held the office of the High Priesthood since 1624; the House of Phineas a.k.a.
Cultural context In the ceremonial context of Indigenous North American communities, "medicine" usually refers to spiritual healing.
Unusually, Munslow was not poor or an outcast, instead being a wealthy farmer from an established family.
Other chivalric orders, such as the military Order of Christ, the Knights of Santiago, or in general, the orders founded in the context of the Reconquista, only had one Grand Prior who acted as the Orders' Chief-cleric.
Qadiyat or Qaziyat (alternative spellings: Kadiyat or Kaziyat) (Russian: Кадиат) in Islam is a territorial division associated with a qadi; in some cases subordinate to the mufti and muftiate.
"Shinmeiaishinkai and the Study of Shamanism in Contemporary Japanese Life", in Religion in Japan, ed.
Origins In ancient mystery religions, a mystagogue would be responsible for leading an initiate into the secret teachings and rituals of a cultus.
Many of the leaders of the Taliban were titled Mullah, although not all had completed their madrasa education.
This chain links every previous Sufi sheik, and eventually can be traced back to the Successors, and in later times to the Prophet himself.
Equivalent to a religious sister, a religious brother typically lives in a religious community and works in a ministry appropriate to his capabilities.
In the last few decades of the 20th century, novices have for most communities been few and far between.
Eastern Christian priests mostly retain the traditional dress of two layers of differently cut cassock: the rasson (Greek) or podriasnik (Russian) beneath the outer exorasson (Greek) or riasa (Russian).
(A similar annex was built in the Frankfurt Synagogue.) Both Dulcie (wife of Rabbi Eliezer of Worms) and Urania bat Abraham served as precentors in the Worms weibershul.
They ranked higher than the imperial abbots and imperial abbesses who although they were also immediate, held only two collective votes in the Diet.
Some religious institutes are composed only of brothers; others are made up of brothers and clerics (priests or ministers, and seminarians).
A Hindu mantrik is known to worship Kali and is often mentioned in the same breath as tantric, though there are subtle differences.
Various other titles like Munīndra (Sanskrit; Pali: Muninda; meaning "lord of Munis"), Munivar (Greatest among Munis), Munirāja (King of Munis), Munīśvara (Sanskrit; Pali: Munissaro; meaning "lord of Munis"), Mahāmuni (The great[est] Muni) are also given to the Buddhas.
Bangladesh In Bangladesh, in the government Aliyah Madrasa system, Maulvi/Moulvi is also associated with formal degrees for those who have passed the course of Maulvi (basic), Maulvi Aalim (intermediate) or Maulvi Fazil (advanced).
In any event, as soon as anyone got near to them, the wind would suddenly come and drag the boat away, so that in the end no one could ever reach them.
In Christian theology, a heresiarch (also hæresiarch, according to the Oxford English Dictionary; from Greek: αἱρεσιάρχης, hairesiárkhēs via the late Latin haeresiarcha) or arch-heretic is an originator of heretical doctrine or the founder of a sect that sustains such a doctrine.
Sages of this type are said to know the truth of existence not on the basis of scientific or religious texts but through their own realization.
Mawlawi generally means a highly qualified Islamic scholar, usually one who has completed full studies in a madrasa (Islamic school) or darul uloom (Islamic seminary).
Other titles included panyasa (canonical text experts), mahattara (female leader) and pravartini (female preacher).
A zhrets is a priest in the Slavic religion whose name is reconstructed to mean "one who makes sacrifices".
Holy Roman Archchaplains Willigis (c982-c1007) Erkanbald (c1016-c1020) Aribo (c1023-c1028) Willegis (c1073) == References ==
The word Mawlawi is derived from the Arabic word mawla, which has several meanings, including "lord".
This voluntary principle, states Olivelle, was the same principle found in Buddhist and Jain monastic orders at that time.
In the early Christian church, this same concept was used to describe role of the bishop, who was responsible for seeing to it that the catechumens were properly prepared for baptism.
Authority Where a difference in opinion exists between the maraji', each of them provides their own opinion and the muqallid (their followers) will follow their own marja's opinion on that subject.
He began in July 1948 with a compulsory period in the ranks of the Royal Regiment of Artillery alongside young men of all social backgrounds.
Buddhism In Buddhism the term "Muni" is used as a title of Gautama Buddha — who, being born among the tribe of the Śākyas, is called Śākyamuni (sage of the Shakyas).
In ancient Judaism, the Priests (Kohanim) had a whole class of Levites as their assistants in making the sacrifices, in singing psalms and in maintaining the Temple.
The address of a superior is often "Mother superior" or "Venerable mother", sometimes only "Mother", and for higher superiors also "Most venerable mother" or "Reverend mother".
One example is the fatwa of Mirza Mohammed Hassan Husseini Shirazi imposing sanctions on the use of tobacco during Qajar rule, which led to the abolition of the tobacco concession.
The parish priest is the proper clergyman in charge of the congregation of the parish entrusted to him.
During the feudal Kamakura period (1185–1333) when Japan was controlled by warring shōgun states: [T]he miko was forced into a state of mendicancy as the shrines and temples that provided her with a livelihood fell into bankruptcy.
The Sarbarah was a custodianship position in British Punjab where a person would oversee the affairs of the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar as a temple-manager.
This was achieved by chanting and dancing, thus therefore the girl was taught melodies and intonations that were used in songs, prayers and magical formulas, supported by drum and rattlers.
A pastor (abbreviated to "Ps","Pr", "Pstr.", "Ptr." or "Psa" (both singular), or "Ps" (plural)) is the leader of a Christian congregation who also gives advice and counsel to people from the community or congregation.
With the Cluniac Reforms, the term prior received a specific meaning; it supplanted the provost or dean (praepositus), spoken of in the Rule of St.
In Ghana, Togo, Benin and other countries of West Africa, a fetish priest is a person who serves as a mediator between the spirits and the living.
Called donates or oblati, they were not considered to be monks, but they were nonetheless gradually accepted as members of the monastic community.
Establishment of the tradition Adi Shankara, the first Shankaracharya, set up four monasteries, known as Mathas or Peethams, in the North, South, East and West of India, to be headed by Self-realised men who would be known as Shankaracharyas.
Iyalawo is a term in the Yoruba religion and other derived religions (especially Lucumi) that literally means "mother of mysteries" or "mother of wisdom" (iyá: “mother”; awó “mysteries").
Apart from the four, another monastery, Kanchi Kamkoti Peetham in South India, is also believed to have been established by Adi Shankara.
150 BCE - 100 CE, BRILL, ISBN 9789004155374 Sangave, Vilas Adinath (1980), Jain Community: A Social Survey (2nd ed.), Bombay: Popular Prakashan, ISBN 978-0-317-12346-3 Shah, Natubhai (2004) [First published in 1998], Jainism: The World of Conquerors, vol.
Estimated ultimate recovery or expected ultimate recovery (EUR) of a resource is the sum of the proven reserves at a specific time and the cumulative production up to that point.
Iran's gas infrastructure is inefficient, with significant losses due to flaring, leaks, and low productivity.
Poor people spend a higher portion of their income on food, so increasing food prices influence them more.
The history of the supermajors traces back to the seven oil companies which formed the "Consortium for Iran" cartel and dominated the global petroleum industry from the mid-1940s to the 1970s.
On 6 August 1954, a fire in the Seria oil field caused an estimated M$3,500 in damage, destroying three storage buildings that housed machinery belts, furniture, and a trade training school, while engineers managed to shut off two nearby oil wells.
Designated S-1, the well was drilled using the cable-tool method and was located on the Seria coastline.
By 1866, US petroleum exports far surpassed petroleum distributed to domestic markets and the value of these exports nearly doubled from $16 million in 1865 to $30 million in 1869.
In the states of Texas and Pennsylvania, the statutory definition of a gas well is one where the GOR is greater than 100,000 ft3/bbl or 100 Kcf/bbl.
This vague classification of purchasing mineral rights also prevents individuals from knowing what they can purchase and at what value.
Nevertheless, Madhesis were the only movement with state support from India, but prominent Madhesi leader, Mahato, has backed down as of 4 February 2016.
Although no reliable estimates are available, unemployment is reportedly acute: over 50% of the population under the age of 20.
The low price of oil internationally compensated to a certain extent for the higher price of oil caused by the devaluation.
The Ohio Oil Rush Oil production climbed year after year, especially after major oil and gas reserves were found in Wood County in northwest Ohio in the 1880s.
Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Limited (ISPRL) is an Indian public sector company responsible for maintaining the country's strategic petroleum reserves.
[1] Professional experience In 1958, as a member of Abadan Refinery's Center for Petrochemical Engineering, he initiated a number of innovations, including an innovative formulation for the production of JP4 (Jet Fuel), which until 1995 was used world-wide to fuel fighter jets.
Each quadrant is divided into 30 blocks measuring 10 minutes of latitude and 12 minutes of longitude.
If true, the collapse in demand due to the Covid pandemic from early 2020, the acceleration of previous trends (e.g.
SOFAZ invests internationally and holds assets in more than 60 countries, including listed securities as well as infrastructure and renewable energy projects.
Characteristics One of the reasons the petroyuan was created was that Russia, Venezuela and Iran may be able to avoid the United States' sanctions, so nations such as Saudi Arabia, one of the main oil producers and extractors could avoid dollar hegemony and U.S.
In addition to broader fuel supply disruptions, reports in April 2026 indicated significant impacts on global energy and aviation markets linked to tensions in the Strait of Hormuz during the Iran–United States conflict.
The average US retail price of a gallon of regular gasoline rose 43% from 38.5¢ in May 1973 to 55.1¢ in June 1974.
The modern meaning of "rentier states" was first defined by Hossein Mahdavy in his economic analysis of the Imperial State of Iran.
Each of these country values is subsequently weighted by the exports of the countries in order to compute a single, weighted, global PRIX index number that sums up the political risk for international oil markets during the coming three months.
A total of 5.33 MMT (million metric tons) storage capacity was built at an investment of $600 million in the first phase.
Firepower is an Australian success story—operating in over 50 countries globally and currently expanding rapidly into new markets.
Hundreds of thousands of Indian nationals have been repatriated from the region, including a high percentage of the skilled professionals and business owners, driving a 14% growth in secondary real estate markets of India.
In May 2025 SOFAZ invested a €20 million stake in the private equity fund Azzurra Capital Fund I, managed by the company Azzurra Capital, based in Dubai.
On March 27th the Shahid Rezayee Nejad yellowcake production facility in Yazd had been attacked, as well as the Khondab heavy water complex near Arak.
IEA World Energy Outlook and British Petroleum The 2008 World Energy Outlook of the International Energy Agency suggested that there was sufficient oil supply to meet demand at reasonable prices for the foreseeable future.
The oil depletion allowance has been subject of interest because one method (percentage depletion) of claiming the allowance makes it possible to write off more than the whole capital cost of the asset.
Petrol usage and pricing in Europe Most European countries have higher fuel taxes than the US, but Russia and some neighboring countries have a much smaller tax, with fuel prices similar to the US.
Examples of swing producers include Saudi Arabia in oil, Russia in potash fertilizers, and, historically, the De Beers Company in diamonds.
Libya's GDP grew in 2001 due to high oil prices, the end of a long cyclical drought, and increased foreign direct investment following the suspension of UN sanctions in 1999.
The 3rd GECF summit was a biennial Gas Exporting Countries Forum summit, an international relations conference attended by the heads of state or heads of government of most member states of the GECF.
Higher octane levels cost more, with premium grade averaging about 68 cents per gallon more than regular grade in 2021.
Hostage at OPEC siege by Carlos the Jackal On December 22, 1975, he was taken hostage along with Iran's Minister Jamshid Amouzegar, Zaki Yamani (Saudi Arabian Oil Minister) and twelve other Oil Ministers in a terror attack on OPEC headquarters in Vienna, Austria.
1990s United Nations Angola Verification Mission III and MONUA spent US$1.5 billion overseeing implementation of the Lusaka Protocol, a 1994 peace accord that ultimately failed to end the civil war.
Australia, which sources most of its jet fuel from China, followed by Singapore and South Korea, has 30 days' worth of jet fuel held in reserve.
Most commonly, it describes how quickly and to what extent changes in upstream prices (such as raw materials, production inputs, or wholesale prices) affect downstream prices (such as the final retail prices paid by consumers).
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
The regime exacerbated shortages by supporting large military and internal security forces and by allocating resources to key supporters of the ruling Party.
In such cases, the swing producer switches to the punitive mode and greatly increases its product output in order to reduce prices, causing losses for other producers and making them cooperate.
Pennsylvania Rock Oil Company News of Kier's experiments spread, and George Bissell, a lawyer from New York, learned of Kier's success.
EIA's 2007 International Energy Outlook estimates that tar sand production will climb to 2,300,000 bbl/d (370,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 3.6 million barrels per day (570×10^3 m3/d) in 2030.
In 2012, PI&D demanded arbitration in London, alleging that Nigeria had not supplied the agreed quantity of gas or to construct the infrastructure it had agreed to build.
He was examined in detail over various financial transactions, including family travel payments and transactions surrounding the purchase of his Mosman Park mansion and claimed that he was forced to buy the property by his close friend and occasional antagonist Warren Anderson.
International reactions Bangladesh – On 18 October, Tofail Ahmed, Minister of Commerce, Bangladesh, urged an end to the blockade and commented that such blockades hit at agreements like the BBIN.
Beyond immediate trade disruptions, analysts have noted a profound shift in the region's long-term economic narrative.
In October 2025, SOFAZ invested £50 million in London Gatwick Airport alongside Global Infrastructure Partners, part of BlackRock, as part of a major infrastructure investment in Europe.
ISPRL is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB), which functions under the administrative control of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.
The government introduced new currency denominations in 1999, including a 1 and 5 kwanza note."Central Bank governor explains arrangements for new currency".
Resulting in seed dispersal and disrupted animal migrations, making it difficult for species to survive and support genetic diversity.
One of the attractiveness of the license blocks in Norway are the economical benefits given by its taxation policy.
Recognizing them can be very difficult at times, for example after a bit trip, when a couple of miles of drill pipe has been extracted and returned to the hole in order to replace a dull bit.
The index therefore does not predict the oil price itself as it does not cover economic and technological developments, but it can function as a component in oil price forecasting.
Canada also significantly increased oil production during the 2000s oil crisis, mostly in Alberta in the form of the Athabasca oil sands, though a transportation and logistics crisis in Alberta has slowed continued growth in supplies.
It is approximately 42 gigajoules or 11.630 megawatt-hours, although as different crude oils have different calorific values, the exact value is defined by convention; several slightly different definitions exist.
At the same time, US oil production nearly doubled from 2008 levels and approached the world-leading "swing producer" volumes of Saudi Arabia and Russia, due to the substantial long-term improvement and spread of shale "fracking" technology in response to the years of record oil prices.
In most instances, the remaining reserves are not easily accessible when oil prices subsequently rise again: when marginal fields are abandoned, the surface infrastructure – the pumps, piping, storage vessels, and other processing equipment – is removed and the lease forfeited.
Although significant, the proportion of expatriate workers is still below oil producing countries in the Persian Gulf.
At the summit, OPEC agreed to cut oil production by an additional 1.5 million barrels per day through the second quarter of the year (a total production cut of 3.6 million bpd from the original 2016 agreement), with the group expected to review the policy on 9 June during their next meeting.
The report added that other dealers were expected to be targeted, including the private companies of property tycoon Warren Anderson and Sydney lawyer Les Stein, both of whom were heavily involved in Firepower.
Johnson is also the author of Geography of the Heart: A Memoir(1996) which received a Lambda Literary Award and the American Library Association Award for best gay/lesbian nonfiction.
Advocacy work at her school Ross was an advisor to the Latin School’s gay-straight alliance for 25 years and the first out lesbian on the Independent Schools Association of the Central States diversity committee.
Bollig, Ben "Nestor Perlongher and the Avant-Garde: Privileged Interlocuters and Inherited Techniques", Hispanic Review - Volume 73, Number 2, Spring 2005, pp.
His parents and sister did survive the war, thanks to help from their Christian relatives on his mother's side.
She is a lesbian and was married to filmmaker Cheryl Swannack until March 15, 2020, when Swannack died due to Parkinson's disease.
Their mission is to tell and retell the shared story of humanity in order to promote trust and cooperation between all people.
Bókafélagið, Reykjavík 1996 Hádegisverðurinn er aldrei ókeypis (There Ain't No Such Thing as a Free Lunch).
Career Kenyon College In 2018, Debussy began working for the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Kenyon College, leading LGBTQ programs and initiatives.
As a German radical, 1839–1850 In 1839, Giesler moved to Münster, where she worked as a writer, publishing fiction, poetry, and columns in periodicals and prayer books.
Selected publications Books The Lavender Bans: A Century of Anti-LGBTQ+ Policies in the US Military.
Articles Some of her publications are: Paper 'Moduli Spaces of Framed G–Higgs Bundles and Symplectic Geometry'.
Milk's most successful opponent was the quiet and thoughtful lawyer Rick Stokes, who was backed by the Alice B.
Career As the BIA had funded her education, there was an expectation, which she rejected, that Davids would teach at a reservation school.
Riordan's leadership during these strike actions were criticised by union members as well as the press.
In June 2019, Voeller was one of the inaugural fifty American “pioneers, trailblazers, and heroes” inducted on the National LGBTQ Wall of Honor within the Stonewall National Monument (SNM) in New York City’s Stonewall Inn.
Collingwood Scholar at Pembroke College; and he founded, with some like-minded friends, the Oxford Hayek Society.
References Sources Néstor Perlongher: the poetic search for an Argentine marginal voice, Ben Bollig, University of Wales Press, 2008, ISBN 978-0-7083-2123-2.
She later worked at the Max Planck Institute in Bonn, the University of Oxford, the University of Porto and the University of Plymouth.
Houston, Tex.: Blaffer Gallery, the Art Museum of the University of Houston; New York, N.Y.: Distributed by D.A.P./Distributed Art Publishers, 2008.
John Fenton Johnson is an American writer and professor of English and LGBT Studies at the University of Arizona.
It received the 2004 Kentucky Literary Award for Nonfiction and the 2004 Lambda Literary Award for best LGBT creative nonfiction.
Beck returned to Berlin in 1979 where he was the director of the Jewish Adult Education Center in Berlin.
Career He came out in 1969 and went on to become a teacher in 1972 at the Roger Manwood School, Lewisham.
With director Michelle Lawler and executive producer Kim Klausner she subsequently co-produced Forever's Gonna Start Tonight (2009), a documentary film about Vicki Marlane, an HIV-positive, transgender performer at nightclubs and lounges.
See also Capital punishment for homosexuality Criminalization of homosexuality in majority-Muslim countries Homosexuality in society List of executed people Violence against LGBT people Notes References External links Claude Courouve, Procès de sodomie en France, (1307-1783).
Poemas completos: 1980-1992, Buenos Aires: Planeta, 1997; Grupo Editorial Planeta S.A.I.C./Seix Barral, 2003, ISBN 978-950-731-366-0.
In 1989, he became executive director of the Shanti Project, a nonprofit AIDS service organization in San Francisco.
She went on to become executive director of the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission from 2003 until 2009, going on to serve in the same position at the Stonewall Community Foundation.
With Stephen Whittle she co-edited The Transgender Studies Reader (Routledge 2006), which was her first work to win a Lambda Literary Award.
Uribe founded Project 10 in 1984 to help schools curtail harassment of homosexual students, therefore reducing the LGBT dropout rate.
Through a statement with Athlete Ally, she, in protest, publicly resigned from her role with NCAA Division III athletics.
She then worked as a literary history teacher in different universities (Vienna, Zurich, Munich, Basel).
Includes: "Death in Venice"; "Tonio Kröger"; "Mario and the Magician"; "Disorder and Early Sorrow"; "A Man and His Dog"; "The Blood of the Walsungs"; "Tristan"; "Felix Krull".
In 2026, Debussy's book, The Lavender Bans: A Century of Anti-LGBTQ+ Policies in the US Military, was praised by a former United States Secretary of the Army.
Astronomical Society of the Pacific conference co-hosted by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, 18–21 June 2006.
The Ethics of Narration: Uwe Johnson's Novels from Ingrid Babendererde to Jahrestage, MHRA Texts and Dissertations, 28 (MHRA) == References ==
"We Will Get What We Ask For: Why Legalizing Gay and Lesbian Marriage Will Not Dismantle the Legal Structure of Gender in Every Marriage".
Later, he lived for a while in Rome, where he worked at the German Historical Institute of the Repertorium Germanicum.
Stryker's most recent documentary is Christine in the Cutting Room (2013), an experimental film about Christine Jorgensen.
Bibliography of Astronomical Publications at the University of Helsinki Observatory and Astrophysics Laboratory, 1815-1984.
individual identity Jordan explores that, as human beings, we possess two very contrasting identities.
In 2018, Cohen said the Netanyahu government's failure to include same-sex couples in a new surrogacy law was "shameful" and said that the bill should not have been passed.
She is a member of the Sistema Nacional de Investigadores (National System of Researchers) and a co-founder of the Programa Universitario de Estudios de Género (PUEG, University Program for Gender Studies) at the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM).
She also evaluated the adsorption of organic dyes upon thiazine and barium nitrate crystals, as well as upon lead and strontium.
Halberstam was the associate professor in the Department of Literature at the University of California at San Diego before working at USC.
In 1998, while doing his PhD at UC Berkeley, Rofes wrote Dry Bones Breathe: Gay Men Creating Post-AIDS Identities and Cultures, in which he argued that the AIDS crisis had passed and gay men needed to free themselves from the sense of emergency and victimhood.
Jennings was a founding member of the advisory board for You Can Play, a campaign dedicated to fighting homophobia in sports.
This will be not just the greatest revolution in history, but the greatest revolution in biology since the appearance of life on earth.
In August 1860, Anneke and Booth moved to Zürich, where they lived with Fritz until he sailed back to the United States to fight in the American Civil War in 1861.
The organization also works to educate young people, educators, and parents on important issues such as HIV/AIDS, STDs, teenage pregnancy prevention, school dropout, depression, and substance abuse.
Defert met Foucault while he was a philosophy student at the University of Clermont-Ferrand in France and their relationship lasted from 1963 until Foucault's death in 1984.
Davis is the former executive director and former director of professional sports outreach for the You Can Play project, an advocacy organization working to eradicate homophobia in professional sports.
Martin was a member of the Governor's Task Force on Teenage Suicide, Child Welfare League of America, The New York City Task Force on AIDS, and the NYC Board of Education Multicultural Advisory Committee.
He has also received a Kentucky Literary Award, two Lambda Literary Awards for best creative nonfiction, as well as the American Library Association's Stonewall Book Award for best gay/lesbian nonfiction.
Her grandparents were immigrants and "intensely" patriotic and believed the United States to be a land of opportunity.
Martin died on August 15, 1991, in his home in New York City of AIDS related complications at the age of 57.
Works Sultan und Prinz (1882) Der Präsident vom Zitherclub (1883–84) Percy Bysshe Shelley (1884) Drei englische Dichterinnen (Three English Writers, 1885) Moderne Versuche eines Religionsersatzes (1886) Wie ist Verantwortung und Zurechnung ohne Annahme der Willensfreiheit möglich?
In 1885 she published a book on Three English Writers, Joanna Baillie, Elizabeth Barrett Browning and George Eliot.
The meeting marked the first time openly gay and lesbian leaders were welcomed at the White House and the first official discussion of gay and lesbian rights in the White House.
In 2018 she published the book Las geometrías y otras revoluciones (Geometry and other revolutions), which describes the history of the field of geometry.
Incompatibility is not solely influenced by genetics, however, and can be affected by environmental factors such as temperature.
See also Chiral life concept – of artificially synthesizing a chiral-mirror version of life CIP system Stereochemistry Pfeiffer effect Unsolved problems in chemistry References Further reading External links Observations Support Homochirality Theory.
Critics Russian paleontologist Stanislav Drobyshevsky and science journalist Sergey Sokolov published very detailed and devastated critics on the Saveljev´s book "Возникновение мозга человека" (Human brain genesis).
Other scientists are critical of the new field, saying it is not worthy to stand as a field of its own.
It is also possible that Ardipithecus and pre-Australopithecus were random offshoots of the hominin line.
Hypothesis It has been proposed that the early Earth hosted multiple origins of life, some of which produced chemical variations on life as we know it.
This prediction is supported in a variety of animals, with reviews revealing that male assistance (such as food or protection), is provided to certain mammals and communally breeding birds in exchange for mating outside the conceptive period.
The plant species' geographic range expansion rates are compared to the actualistic rates of seed dispersal using mathematical models, and are graphically visualized using dispersal kernels.
According to French paleoprimatologist Jean-Renaud Boisserie, the hands of Ardipithecus would have been dextrous enough to handle basic tools, though it has not been associated with any tools.
Notes References Joshua Barbach and Craig Byron, "Cultural Biases in Fossil Record" (impact of Pithecometra), 2005, ArchaeologyInfo.com webpage: ArchaeologyInfo-3.
Some participants objected to statements that appeared to present the theory of evolution as an absolute dogma, however, rather than as a hypothesis that so far has performed very well, and both sides quoted Popper in support of their positions.
Elephantfish (Mormyridae) from Africa have tuberous electroreceptors known as Knollenorgans and Mormyromasts in their skin.
In modern biology, enzymatic activity is what imposes homochirality on these metabolites and others, including hormones, toxins, fragrances and food flavors.
As in the Mormyridae, the generated electric field enables them to discriminate accurately between capacitative and resistive objects.
When the snake is foraging, it waits coiled up with its tail elevated and visible, wiggling around in a way that mimics a smaller animal and captures the attention of its prey.
She also secured Science Foundation Ireland funding of over 200,000 euro for a study of the population dynamics and conservation status of a small bat, and a small grant for work around ecology and evolution with reference to bats.
Structure According to the researchers' mass spectrometry, hemolithin is largely composed of glycine and hydroxyglycine amino acids.
For example, food can be hidden and spread across an enclosure making the animal actively search for it.
Overview In an article in Science in 2020, researchers Garcia-Pelegrin, Schnell, Wilkins, and Clayton made the case for using magic in the study of animal cognition.
For example, one genome wide association study conducted on 517 rice landraces revealed 80 loci associated with several categories of agronomic performance, such as grain weight, amylose content, and drought tolerance.
John Lund, of the Wyoming Game and Fish Department, said that he had never documented surplus killings that extreme from grey wolves.
Ecosystem Theory provides a conceptual framework that helps designers and others understand the mechanisms underpinning product innovation in a tangible and visual way.
If the optimal phenotype in a given environment changes with environmental conditions, then the ability of individuals to express different traits should be advantageous and thus selected for.
In such a case, grouse may profit from not displaying, as they are more likely to encounter a "smart" predator.
CBS renewed the series for a third season in August 2016, which aired between June 29 and September 21, 2017.
Consequently, Eugene Dubois, a student of Haeckel's indoctrinated with the idea of Asian hominid origins, traveled to Java, Indonesia in 1890–1892.
To compensate for this, mice increase the total mass of mucosal cells, cells responsible for glucose transport, in the intestine.
For example, in order for a tech consultant to be effective, he or she has to take a few minutes to discuss what the situation is, how often the problem occurs, what has been tried before, etc.
Most types of music that are selected for enrichment are based on human preferences, causing anthropomorphic biases that may not translate to other animals.
Among these individual studies, one returned to Sărmanul Dionis, tracing the links between Eminescu (otherwise a textbook Junimist) and the international Romanticism of ca.
Paralogous sequences are separated by gene cloning (gene duplication): if a particular gene in the genome is copied, then the copy of the two sequences is paralogous to the original gene.
Specifically, the argument was on the factors influencing and nature of the unit of selection in the genome, with one side positing natural selection, and the other, neutral mutation.
Further reading External links Life on Earth The universal nature of biochemistry Endosymbiosis and The Origin of Eukaryotes Archived 22 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine Origins of the Eukarya.
In the introduction, he gave full credit to Spencer, writing: "I have called this principle, by which each slight variation, if useful, is preserved, by the term Natural Selection, in order to mark its relation to man's power of selection.
She has two younger brothers, Jack and Stephen, and she and her siblings grew up in Clontarf, where her father has his head office for multiple companies, and with her mother working in a school in nearby Coolock, another northern suburb of Dublin.
Shermer hypothesizes that if hominid fossils were found in the same geological strata as trilobites, it would be evidence against natural selection.
Raymond Dart, who obtained a fossil skull of an actual hominid showing human-ape affinities from South Africa was treated with disdain.
However, biological phenomenon complicate the diffusion equation by adding biotic vectors of dispersal such as blue jays and eastern grey squirrels, species which possess caching behaviors, and abiotic agents of dispersal such as high velocity wind storms.
Dobzhansky-Muller model The first major breakthrough in the genetic basis of hybrid incompatibility is the Dobzhansky-Muller model, a combination of findings by Theodosius Dobzhansky and Joseph Muller between 1937 and 1942.
Therefore, researchers have concluded that this animal has similar sexual receptivity across infertile and fertile phases.
Ecological or ethological influences Ecology can also play a role in the observed patterns—called ecological character displacement.
Furthermore, RAO displays conglomerate crystallization behavior, so homochiral RAO can be isolated from a racemic mixture provided that initial seeds are of a single enantiomer.
Mesowear analysis is insensitive to wear stage as long as the very early and very late stages are excluded.
David Lack postulated that distraction displays simply resulted from the bird's alarm at having been flushed from the nest and had no decoy purpose.
The molars developed high crowns and a hard covering for grinding the grass, which was typically covered with high-silica dust and sand.
A natural development of hemolithin may have started with glycine forming first, and then later linking with other glycine molecules into polymer chains, and later still, combining with iron and oxygen atoms.
ramidus likely preferred the closed habitats, specifically riverine areas as such water sources may have supported more canopy coverage.
Lazcano pursued his undergraduate and graduate studies focused on the study of prebiotic evolution and the emergence of life.
Books and articles Snooks has published some 40 books and monographs, including: Depression and Recovery (1974), Domesday Economy (with J.
Though Spencer's conception of organic evolution is commonly interpreted as a form of Lamarckism, Herbert Spencer is sometimes credited with inaugurating Social Darwinism.
While no members of the genus Australopithecus survive today, there are living descendants, such as the genus Homo.
History Among the pioneering zoologists, Linnaeus identified two body plans outside the vertebrates; Cuvier identified three; and Haeckel had four, as well as the Protista with eight more, for a total of twelve.
He has been professor-in-residence or visiting scientist in France, Spain, Cuba, Switzerland, Russia, and the United States.
The earliest known butterfly fossils are from the mid Eocene epoch, between 40 and 50 million years ago.
In 1949, the Ukrainian-British zoologist Hans Lissmann noticed that the African knife fish (Gymnarchus niloticus) was able to swim backwards at the same speed and with the same dexterity around obstacles as when it swam forwards, avoiding collisions.
ZRS enhances the activity of the SHH gene, which is involved in limb development, and this has been shown to cause extra toes.
Sergey Savelyev's statements and books have been repeatedly criticized by experts for a large number of factual errors and incorrect conclusions.
Other usage Usage of supercluster for geographically defined human populations instead of mtDNA strains is rarely seen.
The third season started filming in mid-January 2017, also in and around Vancouver, British Columbia.
Described as "an idol within the police force", Le Cocq was killed on August 27, 1964, during a confrontation with the criminal Cara de Cavalo.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs of the USSR (MVD; Russian: Министерство внутренних дел СССР (МВД), romanized: Ministerstvo vnutrennikh del SSSR) was the interior ministry of the Soviet Union from 1946 to 1991.
Prize objects include a lipstick gun known as the "Kiss of Death", a Fialka Machine (the Russian version of the Enigma Machine), and a suicide tooth filled with poison.
NSS prisons The NSS headquarters and interrogation center in Mogadishu, referred to as Godka or "the Hole", was particularly notorious.
The Scuderie Detetive Le Cocq, the most famous Brazilian death squad, was created to avenge the death of Detective Le Cocq and named in his honor.
The museum opened in the Chelsea and Greenwich Village neighborhoods of Manhattan in New York City on January 17, 2019, and featured the world's largest collection of KGB-specific spy equipment.
However, these groups failed to carry out large-scale actions that would have escalated into civil war, as had occurred in neighboring countries.
External links Official page border service of the FSB PF See also Soviet Border Troops Chronology of Soviet secret police agencies
Nesvadba originally translated poetry from English and wrote several theatrical plays as a student in the late 1940s and early 1950s.
Established in 1954, its rights were limited by the early 1960s, with the KGB border guard, once subordinated to the Moldavian KGB, reported directly to party leaders in Moscow.
Users Soviet Union See also List of Russian weaponry NRS-2 S4M References External links Photographs
For most agencies listed here, secret policing operations were only part of their function; for instance, the KGB was both a secret police and an intelligence agency.
However, the Italian government was unable to get Contreras extradited from Chile, where he had already been incarcerated for ordering the assassination on Orlando Letelier.
Pavel Sudoplatov and Nahum Eitingon approved specialized equipment (namely, poisons) only if it had been tested on "humans", as revealed in the testimony of Mikhail Filimonov.
Like all the other departments that made up the DINA headquarters, the department was not operational, which is why it lacked operational units or brigades that depended on it.
Vanguard member Vincenzo Vinciguerra, who was already imprisoned, claimed Vanguard leader Stefano Delle Chiaie told him that Chilean ruler Augusto Pinochet directed ordered the attempted assassination.
The testimonies coincide in that the three detainees, from Buenos Aires, were taken to the La Reina barracks by "Don Jaime" (alias of Captain Germán Barriga, who committed suicide in 2005) and his agents of Dolphin Group, an elite squad that operated inside the Lautaro Brigade.
A memorial chapel was erected in 2000, which provides more information on the victims and shelter for visitors.
It was within this organization that Adolf Eichmann began working out the details for the Final Solution to the Jewish Question.
The prison was transferred to the Stiftung Ettersberg at the end of 2011 and plans were developed for the memorial centre, aiming to preserve the authenticity of the original site, but also to create a modern museum.
In Russia today, KGB functions are performed by the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR), the Federal Counterintelligence Service which later became the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB) in 1995, and the Federal Protective Service (FSO).
The latter two spent the day locked in a laboratory, experimenting with the lethality of sarin gas on mice and rabbits.
In March 1944, in response to the situation, the NKVD Operational Headquarters was set up in Rivne to combat the Ukrainian national liberation movement.
before fleeing with Donald Maclean to USSR; led to major breach in "Special Relationship"; died in Moscow Boris Bukov, head of apparatus connected to Whittaker Chambers and Alger Hiss.
External links Jiri Mucha et l'invasion de la Tchécoslovaquie, Radio Canada - an interview with Jiri Mucha, archived from the original on 2015-07-21, retrieved 2015-07-17.
Judge Kujawa suggested that these four secret agents implemented their plan to intentionally kill Father Jerzy as it existed prior to the incident, which the statement lasted for 75 minutes.
In 1944 the Red Army moving to the west reconquered the territory of Western Ukraine that was occupied by Nazi Germany and its allies in 1941.
In exile, he opposed the new regime of Pinochet, he had already been nominally open to Salvador Allende.
This is the oldest manual, and describes the use of abusive techniques, as exemplified by two references to the use of electric shock, in addition to use of threats and fear, sensory deprivation, and isolation.
In 1981, Markus Wolf made a request to AGM/S to train around three or four employees from the HVA for special duty in special forces tactics.
At least one pretext to secure additional influence for Himmler's SS and Heydrich's SD in "protecting" Hitler and securing his absolute trust in their intelligence collection abilities, involved thwarting a plot from Ernst Röhm's SA using subversive means.
The Vienna Museum published a list of artworks it had purchased from the Vugesta that had been looted from Jews.
The Directory of National Security (Spanish: Dirección de Seguridad Nacional, abbreviated as DSN) was the secret police of Venezuela from 1938 until is disestablishment in 1958.
Army signals intelligence staffer and NKVD agent handler KGB Aldrich Ames, CIA officer, started spying for USSR as walk-in to old Soviet embassy in D.C., sentenced to life Felix Bloch, U.S.
Headed by Colonel Lenton weekly meeting were held and attended by representatives for censorship, intelligence, SAP, railway police, treasury, immigration and customs.
History Following an unsuccessful assassination attempt by the Ba'ath Party on Iraq's ruler Abdul Karim Qasim in October 1959, Saddam Hussein was placed in charge of Jihaz al Khas (Special Apparatus), sometime between 1964 and 1966.
On 15 March 1953, the MGB was incorporated into the MVD, re-creating a structure similar to the NKVD, but just under a year later on 13 March 1954 the MGB's functions were again transferred to a separate state committee, the Committee for State Security (KGB).
Among other things, he won access to material on the then-new Patriot and Phoenix missiles, the enhanced version of Hawk air-to-air missile, radar instrumentation for F-15 fighter, "stealth radar" for B-1 and Stealth bombers, an experimental radar system being tested by U.S.
A situation report from Einsatzgruppe C in September 1941 noted that not all Jews were members of the Bolshevist apparatus, and suggested that the total elimination of Jewry would have a negative impact on the economy and the food supply.
The prison was opened in 1878 and held political prisoners for several different political regimes until 1989.
Even, the International Brigades had its own intelligence service run by agents of the Soviet NKVD and GRU.
In November 1981, Norway expelled a suspected KGB agent who had offered bribes to Norwegians to get them to write letters to newspapers denouncing the deployment of new NATO missiles.
The Allied landing at Normandy in June and failed German response raised the specter of doom among the upper ranks even of German field marshals.
Its armed wing, Gonobahini, led by Colonel Abu Taher and Hasanul Haq Inu, began an armed campaign against the government of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in order to establish scientific socialism and a Marxist state.
Members of the women's group "Frauen für Veränderung" (Women for Change) went to the building and demanded to be let in.
Established in 1851 in response to the Revolutions of 1848, the organization served as an information exchange among the secret police forces of a number of German-speaking countries.
The KGB Espionage Museum was a museum dedicated to the unbiased presentation of historical and contemporary KGB espionage equipment and tradecraft.
Successor In January 2013, the new Federal Government of Somalia established the National Intelligence and Security Agency (NISA) in place of the defunct NSS.
Commanders (in chief) – in the meaning of chief, commander, commanding general, supreme commander, or manager, etc.
To reach a wide audience, advertisements were broadcast on national and local radio and television stations, as well as published in national and local newspapers.
For the next seven years, from 1939 to 1946, the chief of the foreign intelligence department (then 5th Department of the GUGB/NKVD) was a very young NKVD officer and graduate of the first official intelligence school (SHON), Major of State Security Pavel Fitin.
East Galicia and Western Volyn were annexed by the USSR from Poland in October 1939, then the Soviet Union annexed Northern Bukovina and Bessarabia from the Kingdom of Romania in July 1940, due to the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.
The von Stauffenberg bomb attempt and aftermath By the summer of 1944 unrest in the German military and diplomatic ranks was widespread.
Until May 2012, seventy-six agents had been condemned for human rights violations and sixty-seven were convicted: thirty-six from the Army, twenty-seven Carabineros, two from the Air Force, one from the Navy, and one of the PDI.
Republican Intelligence (RI) was an intelligence agency and secret police force in South Africa from 1961 to 1969.
Nazi regime When the Nazis came to power in 1933 Bautzen became a place where political prisoners, especially those with communist views, were imprisoned.
From 1951 until 1953, the Seguridad Nacional operated a prison camp on Guasina Island, a forced labour camp.
In 2004, he was the Head Florist for the Royal Wedding of the Danish Crown Prince in Copenhagen Cathedral.
In 2011 Rose was updated to ROSEGold which provides a real time service between the call centre in Sleaford, Lincolnshire and the Interflora members around the United Kingdom.
Like many notable horticulturists, he was of Scottish descent, his great-grandfather, John Veitch having crossed into England toward the close of the eighteenth century to take up the offices of steward and bailiff to Sir Thomas Acland at Killerton, Devon.
Through Floral Jamming, these participants can assemble a final floral product under professional guidance without having taken any classes.
1951), Collection de l'art brut, 6 1/8 x 9 1/2 L'Eden Casino de Berck-plage (1952) References External links Exhibition catalogue for Art Brut in America
(Collins, 1955) External links The Language of Flowers: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project == Notes ==
Works Décor de nuit (1948), Collection de l'art brut, 8 x 7 1/8 Un coin de bibliothèque (1948) Prince ancien à son tombeau (1949) Montmartre et la Moulin Rouge (1949), Collection de l'art brut, 20 1/2 x 13 Vieille maison de Montmartre (1949) Argument d'un jardin mondial (c.
The Melbourne International Flower and Garden Show is a flower show held annually since 1995 in early April each year except 2020, in Melbourne, Australia.
The long-running show was not held in 2025, with the Shropshire Horticultural Society citing the rising costs of organising the event.
In 2010, Bergmann founded the flower themed Nomu Café in Omotesando In 2017, Bergmann introduced a line of jewelry called "Natur", which seeks inspiration from floral arrangements.
It was not uncommon in the 19th and early 20th century for Ikebana students practicing Seika or Shoka to construct Aspidistra arrangements for a year or more before graduating and being granted a license to arrange other floral materials.
Recordings "The Unknown Elgar" includes "The Language of Flowers" performed by Teresa Cahill (soprano), with Barry Collett (piano).
Henry Butler Cave (10 October 1922 – 15 September 1989) was a New Zealand cricketer who captained New Zealand in nine of his 19 Test matches.
On 7 October 1775 empress Maria Terezia of Austria awarded Anton Brunswick the title of count Brunswick of Korompa.
Both symbols were popular with left-wing, revolutionary, and radical movements of the era, as well as in the counterculture of the 1960s.
Seal's dahlia business had developed to such proportions in four years that her one small garden could not raise all the tubers she shipped away.
CBS News has described him as "the world's leading flower designer" while The New York Times says that "to call him a master flower designer is akin to calling Annie Leibovitz a shutterbug".
Following the French Revolution of 1848, the socialists pushed to have the revolution's red flag be designated the national flag.
In 1944, Benjamin Tobin acquired the building, renamed it the Breitmeyer–Tobin Building, and marketed the office space to black professionals.
Rather than risk losing the recognised reputation which the firm had acquired, Harry disposed of the nursery and sold the land for redevelopment.
This idea had never entered her head, as she had no stock on hand, but she was quick to grasp the opportunity and in a few weeks, had taken order for US$600 worth of tubers which she had to buy to fill.
Vilsmark is an approved supplier of floristry to the King’s Fund, the Dulwich Picture Gallery and the National Maritime Museum.
Every sixty seconds, the minute hand moves 1.5 feet (0.46 m), and the hour hand moves proportionately.
In 1921 she again entered an floriculture competition and received a gold medal for her contribution in the exhibition.
His ashes were interred alongside his mother's remains at St Matthew's Church, Blackmoor, on 19 June 2017.
Major highlights of the 2008 edition of the flower show include an exhibition of Italian flowers, Bonsai trees, and a display of the Kudumbashree bio-bin.
The chief floral designer leads a staff of four assistant designers and works with the first lady, chief usher, and White House social secretary to plan arrangements and decorations for state dinners, receptions, and day-to-day placement throughout the ceremonial rooms and Executive Residence.
The Cochin Flower Show is a garden show held each year for five to six days in February - March days by the Ernakulam district Agri-Horticultural Society at the city of Kochi, Kerala, India.
The Prince Takamatsu Cup was the highest award until the prince's demise, nowadays the highest award is the Prime Minister's Prize.
Floral Jamming Participants of Floral Jamming are usually beginners who have little to no experience in floral arrangement or floral design.
See also Advent calendar Chrismon tree Christingle Daily devotional References External links Advent wreath FAQ at the Lutheran Missouri Synod web site Advent hymns including two examples of Advent Wreath carols Advent Bible Themes
Yodpiman River Walk also serves as a pier for the Chao Phraya Express Boat, with the designated pier number N6/1.
The Guinness World Record for the largest flower carpet of the world is held by Jardines of Mexico, in Teotihuacan, where an 18,000 m2 (190,000 sq ft) flower carpet was made on 8 December 2018.
In 1966, she successfully campaigned and was elected along with Les Peterson to co-represent the dual member riding of Vancouver-Little Mountain.
Honours For his services to horticulture, King George V conferred the honour of knighthood upon him in 1912; this was the first time a horticulturist had been given a knighthood.
Owe Sandström also introduced the opening number and show feature of Stockholm International Horse Show at the Globen.
From 1968 to 1986, the Urban Council held an Annual Urban Council Flower Show at City Hall, while the Regional Council held the North District Flower Show.
He is also a teacher, having taught at the Spånga Gymnasium in Stockholm, where he specializes in nature and tropical animals.
The Cochin Flower Show 2008 The 2008 edition of the flower show was held from the 5th to the 10th of March, both days inclusive.
In 1953 the name changed to Interflora and the slogan Flowers Worldwide along with the Mercury Man roundel became well known.
See also Moribana Senchadō References External links Media related to Bunjinbana at Wikimedia Commons
The judge ruled that in general everyone has a right to wear any flower as suits their taste, but when socialists as a group wear red rosebuds, it becomes a party emblem.
In 1813 Jozef Brunswick asked architect Anton Pius Riegel to procure several old statues from Rome for the ornamentation of the mansion and of the park, in order to enhance its classical appearance.
The rose is a sign of joy and love, Young blushing love in its earliest dawn, And the mildness that suits the gentle dove, From the myrtle's snowy flow'rs is drawn.
The Society of Floristry Limited was formed in 1951 to meet the growing need for professional recognition for florists in the UK.
Post World War II The show, not held during the Second World War, was revived in 1946, with the organising support of Percy Thrower who was Shrewsbury's Parks Superintendent from that year until 1975, and acted as horticultural advisor and eventually chairman of the Shropshire Horticultural Society.
This comes from the perception that companies such as FTD, 1800flowers, From You Flowers and Teleflora take floral orders away from the local business and extract excessive commission.
Universities such as the University of Missouri's Museum of Art and Archaeology in Columbia, Missouri also hold "Art in Bloom" exhibitions.
See also Floral industry Cut flowers References Further reading Lewis, Geoffrey (1986).The Interflora Story.
The east necklace contains a sub-district sometimes called the Harmonie Park District, which has taken on the renowned legacy of Detroit's music from the 1930s through the 1950s and into the present.
As well as flowers, the show includes other attractions such as cookery demonstrations, gala dinners, music and horse riding displays.
It is harvested by xateros (a name given to those who harvest xate) from palms in the forests of Mexico, Guatemala, and Belize.
Rintaro Tatewaki (帯刀 凛太郎, Tatewaki Rintarō) Voiced by: Yūki Ono, Tomoko Tsuzuki (child) A handsome sculptor who makes everyone around him happy.
The company focuses on the following member needs: Demand Creation, Global Connections, Science & Technology, Industry Talent and Sustainability.
Bergmann teaches at their floristry school in Omotesando, runs a design consultancy Nicolai Bergmann Flowers & Design, and operates a flower themed Nomu Café.
Connolly tries to practise sustainable floristry, incorporating live plants into his works which can be replanted afterwards rather than dying and being thrown away.
Some other drugs, such as certain anticoagulants and plasma volume expanders remain under the control of CBER.
Sensory and Consumer Sciences Achievement Award (2014) –To recognize excellence within the sensory and consumer sciences field.
White allowed the planting of GM sugar beets to continue, but he also warned that this may be blocked in the future while an environmental review was taking place.
International agreements The HPFB signed an electronic data interchange agreement with the US Food and Drug Administration in November 2003, and again in April 2004 with the Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia.
Members of this office include veterinarians, animal scientists, toxicologists, consumer safety officers, and other scientists.
In November 2020, the FDA planned to create a "Summary of the REMS Assessment" document that would publicize their assessments of clinical settings and manufacturers in the REMS program.
They are inspectional observations, and do not represent a final Agency determination regarding your compliance.
Typically, clinical trials in human subjects are conducted and the results are provided as part of the clinical information package of a New Drug Submission (NDS) to Health Canada, the federal authority that reviews the safety and efficacy of human drugs.
It was formed in its current state on 1 October 2014, when AHVLA was expanded by adding parts of the Food and Environment Research Agency (FERA), including the Plant Health and Seeds Inspectorate (PHSI).
Each dataset is distinguished by a unique, two-character DOMAIN code that should be used consistently throughout the submission.
History The National Center for Toxicological Research is geographically adjacent to the Pine Bluff Arsenal, and was once an integrated part of the installation.
CVM does not regulate vaccines for animals; these are handled by the United States Department of Agriculture History In 1953, a Veterinary Medical Branch of the FDA was created within the Bureau of Medicine.
GUDID Submission The Final Rule on Unique Device Identifiers also mandates medical device manufacturers to make a submission to the FDA's Global Unique Device Identification Database.
To emphasise the risk of diarrhoea and vomiting caused by food poisoning, the song "When Will I See You Again" by The Three Degrees is played in the background.
During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee (VRBPAC) received media attention as it reviewed COVID-19 vaccines before their approval.
Application The IND application may be divided into the following categories: Preclinical testing consists of animal pharmacology and toxicology studies to assess whether the drug is safe for testing in humans.
Treatment INDs are filed to make a drug available for the treatment of serious or immediately life-threatening conditions prior to FDA approval.
Legacy devices that do not have a previously assigned Basic UDI-DI, they are assigned an EUDAMED-DI for the purpose of registration in EUDAMED.
An EUND approved through this pathway can only be sold to federal, provincial, territorial and municipal governments.
In the years preceding enactment of MDUFMA, the FDA's medical device program suffered a long-term, significant loss of resources that undermined the program's capacity and performance.
As of July 2022, the EU has recognized four UDI-DI issuing agencies: GS1 AISBL; Health Industry Business Communications Council (HIBCC); ICCBBA, and Informationsstelle für Arzneispezialitäten (IFA GmbH).
During the eight years before PDUFA took effect, an average of 24 new drugs were approved each year.
The drug industry claimed that the FDA misinterpreted the section of PDUFA III authorizing user fees when deciding to charge for reviewing 505(b)(2) applications.
Wageningen Food Safety Research (WFSR) is a research institute for food safety, part of Wageningen University & Research (WUR) in the Netherlands.
The NDDR is temporary Government Regulations The NDDR is a confidential database that is used in North America and the United States to help provide the collection of safe plasma donation through plasmapheresis.
This could enable future research within the drug class to mitigate toxic effects through dosing modification, alternative treatments, or potentially develop a new regulatory tool that would assist in future drug safety evaluation.
The Scientific Committee on Food (SCF), established in 1974, was the main committee providing the European Commission with scientific advice on food safety.
coli O157:H7 associated with Jack in the Box restaurants, in which over 600 were sickened and four died from undercooked hamburgers.
continues to manage the National Collection of Industrial, Food and Marine Bacteria under the direction of Dr Samantha Law, the current curator.
This statute amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938 to provide empower the Secretary of Health and Human Services to engage in debarment of individuals convicted of felony crimes that corrupt the drug regulation process.
The director has the rank of deputy director-general and he or she heads the agency and, as such, it directs and represents it.
If you have an objection regarding an observation, or have implemented, or plan to implement, corrective action in response to an observation, you may discuss the objection or action with the FDA representative(s) during the inspection or submit this information to FDA at the address above.
All datasets based on any of the general observation classes share a set of common Identifier variables and Timing variables.
Powell and the International Food Safety Network are a primary source for food safety information during outbreaks and are often quoted in mainstream media reports.
The institute provides laboratory support to the NVWA and relevant ministries in the event of emergencies.
In 1912, Congress responded with the Sherley Amendments, which addressed the perceived lack of enforcement of fraud related to therapeutic claims.
FSS has a vision of a food and drink environment in Scotland that benefits, protects and is trusted by consumers.
The Division of Chemistry started looking into the adulteration of agricultural commodities around 1867, and in 1883 Harvey Washington Wiley was appointed chief chemist.
488 (1911), the United States Supreme Court ruled that the misbranding provisions of the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 did not pertain to false curative or therapeutic statements but only false statements as to the identity of the drug.
The Act mandates reporting requirements by medical device manufacturers regarding adverse safety events and product effectiveness of devices classified as substantially equivalent to Class III medical devices.
The logic of the relationship may relate to the scientific matter of the data, or to its role in the trial.
During the first 15 years after its enactment, the law was never used to debar a generic drug company and the agency has been progressively reducing its debarment of individuals.
Bush administration's desire to "get tough on crime and drugs." As of 2011, four patients continue to receive cannabis from the government under the program.
The Act of Congress transferred the electronic product radiation control provisions established by the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act.
The Swedish Food Agency (Swedish: Livsmedelsverket), formerly the National Swedish Food Administration (Swedish: Statens livsmedelsverk) is a Swedish government agency that answers to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Consumer Affairs.
There was overwhelming support for the Agency's policy of basing decisions on scientific evidence, and for this policy to be maintained and developed further.
Food and Drug Administration office for regulatory activities concerning healthcare products which are considered a combinational biological, device, or drug product.
Because both agencies shared a mission in terms of protecting the health and safety of consumers and users, and although each of them had specific areas of action, the truth is that both worked in the field of food.
Controversies over preservatives were very important in the early days of the FDA, where volunteers participated in experimental meals with high doses of the chemicals to determine their toxicity.
After the dissolution of this department in late 2023, it was attached to the Ministry of Social Rights, Consumer Affairs and 2030 Agenda.
The Court held that if someone were to willingly be in charge of a company, and therefore its problems, then he or she willingly accepts the consequences of any illegal practices that his or her company or organization is involved in.
Types There are three different types of new animal drug applications: NADA – A NADA is used to seek approval of a new animal drug.
From secretary to molecular chemist, the Center has an extensive staff that covers every possible aspect of food and nutrition science.
AHVLA had originally been established on 1 April 2011 by a merger of two former agencies, Animal Health and the Veterinary Laboratories Agency.
Cliffy or Cliffie may refer to: People Cliffy Drysdale, former professional tennis player Cliffie Grinde, former member of the Norwegian folk rock band Vamp Cliffie Hodgson, player coach of Broadstreet Rugby Club and point-scoring record holder at Coventry R.F.C.
The latter structure is rare in Francophone Cameroon, however, where a third structure prevails: First surname, second surname, forename (e.g.
See also Demographics of Afghanistan Afghan (ethnonym) Name of Afghanistan Afghan diaspora Notes References Sources Fikrat, Mohammad Asef; Umar, Suheyl (2008).
1785), African-American slave accused of treason Billy Sleeth (born 1979), American soccer player Billy Smart (disambiguation), several people Billy Smiley (born 1957), American Christian music producer, songwriter, and musician Billy Smith (disambiguation), several people Billy Smyth (c.
Nell is the name of: People Given name Nell (artist) (born 1975), Australian artist Nell Angloma (born 2006), French basketball player Nell Arthur (1837–1880), American First Lady Nell Ballantyne (1898–1959), Scottish actress Nell V.
The most likely theory is that it originates from griego ('Greek'), used in the same way as the English phrase "it's Greek to me".
Theophilus Grantly, in Anthony Trollope's novel Barchester Towers Theophilus Msimangu, in Alan Paton's Cry, the Beloved Country Theophilus North, title character in Thornton Wilder's last novel (1973) Dr.
Dieudonné is a French name normally meaning "Gift of God", and thus similar to the Greek-derived Theodore, Hebrew-derived Matthew, or the Spanish Diosdado.
Parsi, a name occasionally used by speakers of Indo-Aryan languages of northern India to refer to speech forms they do not understand.
The title of a book, or any other published text or work of art, is a name for the work which is usually chosen by the author.
Adoptions from Romance Other languages adopted the week together with the Latin (Romance) names for the days of the week in the colonial period.
There is a considerable emphasis on localisation and domestication instead of phonetic imitation of the English pronunciation.
It also found use in the intermittent exercise Gringo-Gaucho between Argentine Naval Aviation and US Navy aircraft carriers.
of philological sciences Katy Chokaev connected ghalghai with the name of the God of Sun/Sky Gal (ГӀал, Ghal) of the Vainakh religion.
Keohane (born 1940), American political theorist and former college president Maria Anna Mozart, nicknamed "Nannerl" (1751–1829), Austrian musician and elder sister of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart See also Nannerl Notenbuch, a practice book used by Maria Anna Mozart as a child Divertimento No.
In most Portuguese-speaking countries typically two surnames are used, sometimes three or four, typically some or none inherited from the mother and some or all inherited from the father, in that order.
The Martins in Skye are traditionally associated with Clan Donald, and the Lothians were home to a powerful "de St Martin" family from the 12th century.
The archaic Latin form Māvors () is seen, but only very rarely, in English, though the adjectives Mavortial and Mavortian mean 'martial' in the military rather than planetary sense.
It can be a diminutive of names that begin with J, most commonly Joseph, Joshua, Joe, Josephine and Johanna.
In 1889, North Dakota and South Dakota were holding statehood conventions and demanded reduction of the Great Sioux Reservation, which was established by the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868.
There are numerous forms of the name in various languages; these were formerly often simply translated as "John" in English but are increasingly left in their native forms (see sidebar).
Alongside Leslie, his Toward a Theory of Nicknames: A Case for Socio-Onomastics, published in the journal Names, established a number of crucial theoretical concerns.
The Mandarin-translated names do not only differ from their Cantonese counterparts but also among Mandarin-speaking regions, e.g.
The "H" prefix before the ethnonym and country name appeared in official Latin language Hungarian documents, royal seals and coins since the reign of king Béla III (r.
In DAI, the Serbian hinterland is called "baptized Serbia", while Ras is only mentioned as a border town.
Ike, a nickname for the main probe (Isaac Newton) from the mockumentary Alien Planet Ike, the horse in the 2006 film Charlotte's Web Ike Boone, recurring character in John Grisham's junior novels.
It is most likely derived from the Middle English form of the Old English given name "Cada", which itself is derived from a number of Brittonic names beginning with "Catu", meaning "battle".
Jamie, a character in the Street Fighter video game franchise Jamie Clapton, in the soap opera Doctors Jamie Dutton, a main character in the Paramount Network original television series Yellowstone.
Mars is also the basis of the name of the month of March (from Latin Martius mēnsis 'month of Mars'), as well as of Tuesday (Latin dies Martis 'day of Mars'), where the old Anglo-Saxon god Tíw was identified as the Anglo-Saxon equivalent to Mars by Interpretatio germanica.
A new governmental tradition of English-to-Cantonese name translation for British officials was thus born.
Edmund “Birdy” Sweeney (1931–1999), Irish actor and comedian Jasmine “Birdy” van den Bogaerde, born 1996, British singer, songwriter and musician Evelyn Byrd “Byrdie” Bell, born 1985, American actress Byrdie Green (1936–2008), American jazz and R&B singer == Notes ==
For instance, Hong Kong media observe the Cantonese name translated by the Consulate-General and call former Prime Minister Theresa May 文翠珊 or Màhn Cheui Sāan, meaning "refined" for 文, "jade" for 翠, and "coral" for 珊.
In English, the planet Mars is named after Mars, the Roman god of war, an association made because of its red color, which suggests blood.
Its ultimate source is Proto-Indo-European *médʰyos – compare Avestan maiδya, Sanskrit मध्य (madhya) and Latin medius.
Manuel is a masculine given name originating in the Hebrew name Immanuel (עִמָּנוּאֵל‎), which means "God with us." It was reportedly brought from the Byzantine Empire (as Μανουήλ) to Western Europe, mainly Germany, Portugal and Spain, where it has been used since at least the 13th century.
The battle, which resulted in the defeat of US forces, was the most significant action of the Great Sioux War of 1876.
priesa to prisa), there is no perfect analogy for the second, save in Old French (Gregoire to Grigoire to Gringoire).
Countries decide for themselves the division(s) to which they wish to belong; some belong to more than one division.
Ignatius "Iggy" Frome, in the TV show New Amsterdam Jim "Iggy" Ignatowski, from the TV series Taxi Iggy Iguana, a main character in the Canadian children's TV series Under the Umbrella Tree Iggy Koopa, one of the Koopalings in the Super Mario Bros.
5 and from 1968 at the Institute of Language and Literature of the Academy of Sciences of the Estonian SSR.
Fitzgerald (1863–1950), known as "Honey Fitz", American politician and grandfather of President John F.
Drower had interpreted it in reference to Zahreil, but arguing that Zahreil never left the World of Darkness.
1560–1613), Iranian general and statesman of Georgian origin Surname Javad Allahverdi, Iranian football player See also Alaverdyan Allahverdiyev == References ==
Some commentators note that the name has risen in use for girls along with other names of a similar style that all exude cuteness and promote enjoyment, perhaps in reaction to serious times.
Morphology The Chechen linguist, doctor of philological sciences Katy Chokaev, analyzed the internal structure of the ethnonym.
Manny Pardo, a hard-boiled detective in the game Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number (based on serial killer Manny Pardo) Manuel Alberto Javier Alejandro "Manny" Delgado, a character from the ABC TV sitcom Modern Family See also Isaiah 7:14 List of names referring to El == References ==
Nine copies of the document are known, of which the original Golenischeff copy is the most complete.
Methodologically speaking, socio-onomastics focuses on synchronic variation of names over time and space - why are some names given and others not, why are some so popular, why are some remembered by or applied to certain groups of people or places?
Ethnologue assigns it the ISO 639-3 code [prd], but Glottolog considers it spurious and a duplicate of the Zoroastrian Dari language [gbz].
As such the name is derived ultimately from the Etruscan language family name Egnat, the meaning of which is unknown.
The concept of "hypostasis" functions as a kind of conceptual inverse for terms which may have originated as personal names, and have linguistically evolved to become common terms for general concepts and qualities.
Traditionally a masculine name, it can be diminutive form of James or, more rarely, other names and is of Scottish English origin.
In the fall, people split into smaller bands to facilitate hunting to procure meat for the long winter.
The Administrator of the British Indian Ocean Territory is the junior to a commissioner (Chagos Archipelago, notably Diego Garcia.
The Queen was accompanied by the Prince of Wales (now Charles III) and Princess Anne on the tour, and attended celebrations connected with the bicentenary of Captain James Cook's first voyage to New Zealand.
New Zealand's representative in Tokelau is the administrator of Tokelau (since 2022, Don Higgins), who has the power to overturn rules passed by the General Fono (parliament).
James Ingram McDonald (11 June 1865 – 13 April 1935) was a New Zealand painter, photographer, film-maker, museum director, cultural ambassador film censor, and promoter of Maori arts and crafts.
History The Ministry became operational on 1 February 2011, bringing together and replacing the Foundation for Research, Science and Technology and the Ministry of Research, Science and Technology.
About Ngārimu is affiliated to the Māori iwi Ngāti Porou and Te Aitanga ā Mate, and is based in the Gisborne region on the East Coast of New Zealand.
He also alleged that the terms of references had been constructed in a way that gave a platform to conspiracy theorists.
The first session of the New Zealand Legislative Council was held in Auckland from 24 May to 10 July 1841.
Staffing Career staff The New Zealand Fire Service employed 1,713 professional career firefighters, 444 support staff and 80 communication centre staff.
This converted customary ownership to freehold, though partition orders remained the responsibility of the Māori Land Court.
History The Environmental Protection Authority was established on 1 July 2011 under its own Act, the Environmental Protection Authority Act 2011.
George William Clinkard (17 September 1893 – 27 January 1970) was a New Zealand public servant and trade commissioner.
His son George Jellicoe, 2nd Earl Jellicoe, had a military career during the Second World War, after which he was a parliamentarian and a businessman.
By 1904 the Maori Land Councils were at a standstill as Māori realised it did not deliver the autonomy they thought it would and there were protests in 1905.
Other positions were chairman of the Manawatu United Council, member of the Wellington Harbour Board, Commissioner for the Wellington Area Health Board and a member of the Massey University Council.
A separate ministerial portfolio for corrections was created on 1 October 1995 and was initially assigned to the incumbent justice minister, Doug Graham.
He became Naval Assistant to Third Naval Lord and Controller of the Navy in February 1902 and was given command of the armoured cruiser HMS Drake on the North America and West Indies Station in August 1903.
She was promoted to Dame Companion of the same order, for services to the State, in the 2016 New Year Honours.
Table footnotes (1) member present during the twelfth session (2) member not present during the twelfth session References Citations Works cited Wilson, Jim (1985) [First published in 1913].
In 1987, he led the department in becoming a smoke-free workplace after 86% of staff supported the move.
He served as Commissioner then High Commissioner to Singapore (also to Malaya and Ambassador to Thailand) 1955-58, then as High Commissioner to Canada 1958-61 and Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York 1958-62.
In 2022 the Northern and Southern Wards changed from three to two members and two new wards Tiikeitia ki Uta (Inland) Māori and Tiikeitia ki Tai (Coastal) Māori were established.
The term "administrator" is also used in the Canadian territory of Yukon, although the position of administrator in Yukon is analogous to a "deputy commissioner of Yukon".
Today the New Zealand Aid Programme, run by MFAT’s Pacific & Development Group, oversees a three-year NZ $2.91 billion appropriation for 2024-27.
As of 2023 she was on the Council of Te Pūkenga, the national vocational training organisation established by the government in 2020.
He talked about his church's efforts to broadcast information from the government and social services to congregants.
It included her first public speech, following the end of the year-long period of mourning as is custom.
Process There are four stages to a Family Group Conference; each stage of the process has equal importance.
There are several other courts of specialist jurisdiction, including the Employment Court, the Environment Court and the Māori Land Court, as well as the Family Court and the Youth Court, which operate as specialised divisions of the District Courts.
Although Frederick Whitaker was the head of the government, he was never appointed premier as that office had yet to be established.
As Ambassador to the EU he was instrumental in beginning the process that led to the EU/NZ Free Trade Agreement concluded in June 2022.
Aube left for the Pacific in February 1840, captained by Charles François Lavaud, who had been appointed as Commissaire du Roi.
The only occasion on which the Queen's Personal Flag for New Zealand was flown in her absence was at parades in honour of her Official Birthday.
On 14 July 2017, it was announced that van Bohemen would be appointed a Justice of High Court of New Zealand.
Family On 29 April 1891 he married Mary (May) Brabin and had three daughters with her, Marjorie, Flora and Dorothy, as well as a son, Donald Douglas.
In 1999, Price became New Zealand's High Commissioner to Samoa, and was present when Samoan Cabinet Minister Luagalau Kamu was assassinated at a Samoan political rally.
In 2008 Elwood was chairman of the Waterview Connection Procurement Steering Group, reviewing the feasibility of making a proposed State Highway extension in Auckland a public/private partnership (PPP).
Dame Paula Rae Rebstock (born 1 September 1960) is an Auckland-based consultant and company director who served as the Chair of the New Zealand Commerce Commission until March 2009.
The constitutional issue cut across the previous party lines (based on boosting or criticising the management of public works investment) and enabled supporters of Edward Stafford, such as Harry Atkinson, to join the Government.
The legislation faced reservation by Wi Pere, Tūkino Te Heuheu, Henare Tomoana and Mohi Te Atahikoia of the Tu Kotahitatanga movement but was passed anyway.
He was a New Zealand negotiator for the CER negotiations during a posting in Canberra from 1979–1983, and served in senior Foreign Affairs postings in Wellington before his posting in Jakarta from 1988–1991.
McDonald participated in the 1919–1923 Dominion Museum ethnological expeditions alongside Te Rangihīroa, Elsdon Best, Johannes Andersen and Āpirana Ngata.
However, only after the election of the First Labour Government in 1935 was there large-scale state involvement in the New Zealand housing market.
In May 2021 he delivered the judgement in the case of the FAST Party against the Electoral Commission, overturning the revocation of the 2021 election.
The central blue disc is taken from the then Queen's Personal Flag, which was used by the Queen in relation to her role as Head of the Commonwealth.
He was instrumental in providing New Zealand assistance to ensure political calm was restored to Samoa, and in the subsequent trial of those involved in the assassination plot.
As the governor-general is resident in New Zealand, the Cook Islands Constitution provides for the distinct position of King's Representative.
The EPA has a number of advisory groups and decision-making committees: EPA Board The EPA's Board is appointed by The Minister for the Environment and must have at least one member with experience relating to the Treaty of Waitangi and tikanga Māori (Māori customary values and practices).
In 2013, MTA announced that German based company DEKRA would purchase 60 percent of VTNZ for NZ$36 million.
The Christmas holiday, when Parliament was not sitting, provided a good opportunity to remove Jellicoe with a minimum of fuss.
Its independence in decision making is protected by statute and the established governance structures.
On 7 July, the HRPP lodged a complaint against him with the Judicial Services Commission, alleging he was incompetent.
Garlitsky was fired and, at the Emperor's decree, his consciousness was copied onto a gel-crystal and his body destroyed, so he could continue working on specifications but under a watchful eye of the overseers.
Reception Booklist, in its review of The Clone Codes, wrote "The McKissacks' slight story for younger readers packs a great deal of messaging, which will no doubt prove useful in classroom discussions of issues and themes but sometimes comes at the expense of the story.
They uncover that their mother faked her own death after the Great Starvation and has only recently passed away.
The group's workspace on Elysium, the abandoned Moon Camp Americana, is overseen by a copy of Castillo's cavalier A.I.
His child, Dim Dever, is selected by the guiding world computer, called Olga, to carry his ancient genes to a possible new colony on a planet orbiting Procyon.
[and] asks readers to ponder what makes us human and if we’ll know when we’ve crossed the line, becoming something else." Publishers’ Weekly also gave the book a starred review, stating that "Dayton’s brilliant collection of stories is best described as a scientific Twilight Zone".
Helen and Jeb, whose children are not allowed on the shuttle due to genetic proximity, resentfully board.
As the amenities of the high-rise break down and bodies begin to pile up, no one considers leaving or alerting the authorities, instead exploring the newly-found urges and desires engendered by the building's disintegration.
9 years later, they arrive and discover that Earth II is sub-optimal: its high axial tilt creates temperature extremes on either side of its equator, making minimal land livable.
Buckman retires to Borneo where he is assassinated soon after writing an exposé of the global police apparatus.
Eventually, as the mutation does not allow the microorganisms to survive in freezing temperatures, when winter begins, all the creatures die.
After immobilizing Blake, they explain to Forbin their purpose in immobilizing Colossus — their desire to take half of the Earth's oxygen, a process that will kill nearly a quarter of the human population.
Finally, James penetrates a group working on a project they hope will usher in a whole new era of sensual technology.
Plot In the late 2060s, Logan Ramsay is a law enforcement official working for the Gene Protection Agency (GPA), an organization established in the aftermath of a global famine known as the "Great Starvation", which resulted from an attempt to genetically enhance crops.
Taverner is cleared of all charges and dies of old age, while Heather Hart abandons her celebrity career and becomes a recluse.
Humans Tomiko Asahina (朝比奈 富子, Asahina Tomiko) Voiced by: Yoshiko Sakakibara (Japanese); Allison Sumrall (English) Satoru's grandmother and also the head of the Ethics Committee.
To deal with these increasingly common robot malfunctions, American Congresswoman Laura Perez proposes a bill called the robot defense act.
Horrified by the prospect of his child being sacrificed to provide him with a new lower body, Larry opts to return to suspended animation.
Caidin revisited this theme a few years later in his novel, Cyborg, which was eventually adapted into the 1970s television series The Six Million Dollar Man.
The Daemon's first mission is to kill two programmers, Joseph Pavlos and Chopra Singh, who worked for CyberStorm Entertainment and unknowingly helped in the creation of the Daemon.
Panicked as his wife and child's deadline approaches, Asakawa tries to figure out why he was spared.
It continues with Ludmilla, a girl who must conceal the extent to which her body has been rebuilt as prejudice against altered humans is on the rise.
In desperation, Richards turns to the Games Network, a government-operated television station that runs violent game shows.
Instead, his body was born deformed and his extreme intelligence has twisted in upon itself so that he spends his mental energy creating anagrams and solving useless puzzles about the world around him.
The book is set in San Diego, California, in 2025, in a variation of the fictional world Vinge explored in his 2002 Hugo-winning novella "Fast Times at Fairmont High" and 2004's "Synthetic Serendipity".
She praised the book’s characters as role models, but criticized it for what she thinks is a rushed ending.
Chris Aylott described it as "a minor classic of science fiction – one that shows off both the best and worst elements of hard SF.
At school, that day, the principal announces the disappearance of Chad Hilligas, from which Tamaya quickly concludes that the missing kid must still be in the woods.
The book follows the progress of these new humans as they either go extinct or regain sapience in wildly different forms, gradually discovering that the Qu experimented on them.
The story is saturated with poetic quotations and the unrepentant silly fun not only of a love story between Dickinson and Whitman but the idea of them visiting the afterlife.
Martin's Press, 1987) X, Y (Dell, 1993) The Healer (Pyr, 2005) Short fiction Collections The Brains of Rats (Scream/Press, 1990).
Tikkirey shows that the whip bonded to him, which surprises the phage, as this has never happened before.
It is the second book in the Clone Codes trilogy and is about Houston Ye, a teen cyborg who, with Leanna (a girl who discovered she is a clone in the first book, The Clone Codes), attempt to obtain civil rights for themselves.
Amid increasingly chaotic seas, a young Islander named Brett is swept overboard during a rogue wave and presumed lost.
Despite betrayal by Nadine, Logan confronts and kills Kara, who by then had made significant advancements towards a global delivery mechanism for the upgrade.
The hotel chain, as the author explains, has moved downmarket over time to a niche of minimal but decent lodging.
For the most part, The Candy House takes place at a later time period and some of the stories include science-fiction themes.
Technology and science have degraded, and all freely breeding species have been exterminated except for the five-toed neolithic humans, who are classified as a garden varmint.
See also Neutron stars in fiction "Blink of an Eye", an episode of Star Trek: Voyager with a similar premise.
One of these planets is Hyperion, home to structures known as the Time Tombs, which are moving backwards in time and guarded by a legendary creature known as the Shrike.
By 16 October 2022, Kösemen had written the expanded version up until the Qu's conquest of the galaxy.
He eventually becomes a security operative, assigned jobs such as executing criminals, participating in a massive worldwide assassination of spammers who corrupt the internet.
Journal of the British Interplanetary Society: 61:9: September 2008: Seminar on Interstellar Propulsion Systems.
During Archos' invasion, Nomura built an army of robots and created a safe haven for humans all over Japan.
However, when a connection is made between the two programmers and Cyberstorm, the FBI takes control, led by Agent Decker.
However, "viruses" (parasitic artificial life-forms) known as psions have invaded the system of the Archive.
More than either of the previous stories, "Walt and Emily" delights in literary references and games.
Novellas The Roberts (Tachyon Publications, 2011) Longer (Tor.com, 2019) References External links Michael Blumlein.com Michael Blumlein at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Ritter, claiming to be from the Department of Homeland Security turns up and takes her into custody.
When Loki massacres the task force, the Major contains the situation by destroying all evidence (including leveling the building) and personally executing Roy Merritt, fearful that Merritt's pursuit of Loki will attract too much attention.
This enormous 'rake' is an ocean-going biota harvester built in part from a genetically modified blue whale.
The Poor Clares constitute the second branch of the Order of Friars Minor, founded in the thirteenth century by Clare of Assisi under the inspiration of Francis of Assisi.
He has been a member of the Buddhist Santi Asoke movement, which interprets the eight precepts as eating one vegetarian meal a day.
Still one must study the Torah and observe its commandments, even though he is not in the proper mood, since he will gradually acquire thereby a sympathetic frame of mind" (23b).
Premise The Day of Atonement is one on which American black men swear to refrain from crime, drug addiction, and family abuse.
The vow of enclosure is a religious vow made by some branches of the Poor Clares in addition to the three vows of obedience, poverty and chastity.
Some inscriptions are made in an extremely short formula, including only the vower's name and the word ndr (as a noun – "the vow of") or mtnt ("the gift of").
History Of the three ships on Columbus's first voyage, the flagship, the Santa María, had been shipwrecked in Hispaniola on December 25, 1492, leaving only the Niña and Pinta to make the homeward voyage.
With regard to applications of the principles of the third precept, the precept, or any Buddhist principle for that matter, is usually not connected with a stance against contraception.
Gabriel Turville-Petre suggested that names for Freyr and his sister Freyja which equate them with a boar and a sow respectively implied that consumption of the sacrificed boar was believed to be consumption of the god's flesh and absorption of his power.
The Oath Against Modernism is still pronounced by the Society of Saint Pius X, and sedeprivationist and sedevacantist groups such as the Congregation of Mary Immaculate Queen and the Istituto Mater Boni Consilii.
While originally containing heathen religious components such as prayers and worship of gods such as Freyr and Thor, the practice continued in an altered manner after the Christianisation of Scandinavia.
This was vowed to James before the battle by Ramiro I of Asturias in Calahorra, offering Saint James part of the booty taken from the Moors along with the first fruits and crops from each year's harvest as an ex voto.
Section 2 empowered judges to summon children to court to prove they had not gone abroad without licence under section 1.
Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga In Óláfs saga Tryggvasonar and Jómsvíkinga saga, accounts are given of the same memorial feast as in Fagrskinna.
However, many parish priests and other ‘low clergy’ sided with the Third Estate, representing their own class and the class of their flocks.
At one point of the account of the dedication of the Temple of Solomon, Solomon prays to Yahweh, asking him to hear and act upon curses uttered in a dispute that are then brought before his altar, to distinguish between the person in the right and the one in the wrong.
The sisters known as "extern sisters" (or "externs") do not make this additional vow in order to be able to handle some of the community's needs outside the papal enclosure.
Section 19 provided for rolls of those subscribing to the oaths under section 15 to 17 be kept at the Four Courts.
They included sets of precepts which were expected to be taken by laypersons, like the five precepts, and longer sets of rules for monastics (the Vinaya).
In a speech in Caen in 1791, he expressed himself as follows:Receive the homage of a heart that shares with you the glory of having seen the scepter of tyrants broken and the happiness of now living under laws dictated by reason and enshrined in evangelical morality.
Marital chastity In marriage, the spouses commit to a lifelong relationship that excludes sexual intimacy with other persons.
negative effects", specific research is lacking, and that it was intended more to prevent an increase in Catholic landholding than encourage further decrease: the Catholic share of land had already fallen from 60% before the 1641 Rebellion to 22% before the Williamite War to 14% in 1704.
Vows in religious institutes In medieval times religious vows taken by members of religious institutes approved by the Holy See were regarded both as solemn and public.
Churches of the Anglican Communion have no restrictions on the marriage of deacons, priests, bishops, or other ministers to a person of the opposite sex.
In most Orthodox traditions and in some Eastern Catholic Churches men who are already married may be ordained priests, but priests may not marry after ordination.
The disciple hoping to receive the precepts first pays respects to the six directions, which represent their parents, teacher, husband or wife, friends, religious master and employees (traditionally servants).
Columbus's vow (Spanish: El Voto colombino) was a vow by Christopher Columbus and other members of the crew of the caravel Niña on 14 February 1493, during the return trip of Columbus's first voyage to perform certain acts, including pilgrimages, upon their return to Spain.
In the latter case, Hrafnkell reflects on his vow, saying "[o]ften we shall repent when we speak too much but seldom we would rue it if we had spoken less".
In Tibetan Buddhism, there are eight types of Pratimokṣa vows: Vows for laity Fasting Vows (Upavasa, nyungne) — 8 vows Layperson's Vows (skt.
See also Seventeen Rules of Enjuin Oath of Asaph Hippocratic Oath Jīvaka Further reading Demieville, Paul.
The first sign, called "Sign of Tinnit", symbolizes according to most researchers the goddess Tinnit; her common epithet, pn bʿl appears as ΦΑΝΗΒΑΛΟΣ on a coin from Ashkelon near the symbol of Tinnit.
Archdeacon Parambil Thomas was ultimately consecrated as Metropolitan by twelve priests, taking the title Thoma I.
I shall have no faith in Gauri, Ganapati and other gods and goddesses of Hindus, and I shall not worship them.
He protested against the September Massacres, and supported the revolt of Lyon against the National Convention.
The second set of vows is original to Zhiyi's corpus and states: Sentient beings, limitless in number, I vow to ferry over.
As an emblem of inward chastity, some Christians choose to wear a cord, girdle or a cincture of one of the several Confraternities of the Cord or a purity ring.
Once he had received holy orders or made a religious profession, however, any marriage he contracted was considered null and void.
The thirteen saṅghādisesas for bhikkus are: Discharge of semen or getting someone to discharge your semen, except while dreaming.
May I set rolling the wheel of dharma that has not its equal, and is honoured and revered of devas and men." The Mahāvastu depicts Shakyamuni taking other vows under other past Buddhas.
(G) Sace gilānaṁ sappāyabhojanehi vā sappāyabhessajjehi vā sappāyūpaṭṭhānena vā na vuṭṭhāheyya, aham-pi kho tassa gilānassa anukampāya patirūpo upaṭṭhāko bhavissāmī ti.
Renunciation of the right to own property is now a matter for the constitutions of the religious institute in question and is associated not with the solemnity of the vows but with their perpetuity.
The existence of the oath was confirmed in an 1889 Salt Lake City meeting of the First Presidency in which they discussed "the propriety of ...
The battle had resulted from his refusal to pay the Tribute of 100 Damsels to the Emirate of Córdoba.
Section 13 mandated that inheritance from a Protestant would according to common law, that is primogeniture.
The precepts are normative rules, but are formulated and understood as "undertakings" rather than commandments enforced by a moral authority, according to the voluntary and gradualist standards of Buddhist ethics.
It also prohibited Catholics under 21 from going abroad without licence, to help enforce the prohibition in the Education Act 1695 (7 Will.
Mary of Guadalupe and carry a wax taper of five pounds weight; he caused them all to take an oath that the one on whom the lot fell, should perform the pilgrimage.
Teske, "Votive Offerings and the Belief System of Greek-Philadelphians", Western Folklore 44:3, Healing, Magic, and Religion (July 1985), pp.
The Mūlasarvāstivāda Vinaya is preserved in both the Tibetan Buddhist canon in the Kangyur, in a Chinese edition, and in an incomplete Sanskrit manuscript.
He briefly became a teaching assistant at the University of Lagos and later served as an African literature lecturer at University of Nigeria, Nsukka until the civil war broke out; he supported the Federal Government and so had to leave the region and return to Bori.
Findings Energy Balance in Europe Energy demands and the cost of the heating demands of the industrial, residential, service, agricultural and transportation sectors were estimated using data from the 2003 IEA energy balances for OECD and non-OECD countries.
Controversy The public consultation process before the ruling, and the ruling itself were controversial, yielding 229 comments.
In addition targets are broken down further by energy use sector including transport, electricity and the heating and cooling sectors.
The response was the creation of groups like the Association of Arab-American University Graduates, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee and the Arab American Institute.
Do you agree with President Carlos Mesa's policy of using gas as a strategic recourse to achieve a sovereign and viable route of access to the Pacific Ocean?
Legislation has also been passed for the District of Columbia; PaintCare anticipates beginning the District's paint stewardship program in September 2016.
Oceania Australia New Zealand In October 2007, the Clark Labour government introduced a 10 year moratorium on new fossil fuel thermal power generation.
Building performance standards There are several different building performance standards widely used for designing building codes and energy-efficiency certifications.
This work proceeded until October 2011, when the European Union argued that, given current developments in the international energy situation and the lack of progress in negotiations and consultations, it appeared no longer opportune to continue talks.
Research has found that in developed countries, the direct rebound effect is usually small to moderate, ranging from roughly 5% to 40% in residential space heating and cooling.
32 European countries, including the 25 member states of the European Union (as of 2004), the 4 accession countries, as of 2007, (Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Croatia), and three EFTA countries (Iceland, Norway and Switzerland) were included in the analysis for the project.
The Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) is an international agreement which establishes a multilateral framework for cross-border cooperation in the energy industry, principally the fossil fuel industry.
History In 2015, Pacific Island leaders issued the "Suva Declaration On Climate Change" during the Pacific Islands Development Forum in Suva, Fiji.
Despite a short increase in 2021/2022 driven by the United States, the industry continues to see diminishing returns.
The International Energy Forum (IEF) is an inter-governmental, non-profit international organisation which aims to foster greater mutual understanding and awareness of common energy interests among its members.
These group discussions reflect many concerns on the issue of the use of unconventional oil and unconventional gas.
RFA also complained that corn-based ethanol scored only a 21% reduction, noting that without ILUC, corn ethanol achieves a 52% GHG reduction.
There is a major fear on the possible disconnection between the public's and the authorities' visions of what is a good choice for the good reasons.
The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining (Spanish: Ministerio de Industria, Energía y Minería, MIEM) of Uruguay is a ministry of the Government of Uruguay that is responsible for formulating and promoting the industrial, energy and mining policies of the country.
Global Energy Justice: Principles, Problems, and Practices (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2014) Sovacool, BK (Ed.).
The Icelandic Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism (Icelandic: Iðnaðarráðuneytið) is one of the cabinet-level government ministries responsible for Iceland's economy.
In these systems, consumers can be financially compensated for reducing their consumption during peak loads, effectively "selling" the energy they did not use back to the grid.
Proper mix of solar thermal and solar PV can fully match the load fluctuations without the need of costly battery storage.
The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), founded on 11 December 1988, is a sociopolitical organization in Nigeria, representing the interest of the Ijaw people, the fourth largest ethnic groups in Nigeria.
In Queensland starting in 2008, the Solar Bonus Scheme pays 44 cents for every excess kilowatt hour of energy fed into the state electricity grid.
History In 1907, from the Ministry of Development, the President of the Republic Claudio Williman decided to create the Ministry of Industries, Labor and Public Instruction, it was responsible for livestock, agriculture, police, animal health, Immigration and colonization.
The use of heavy-water reactors has been particularly attractive for the nation because it allows uranium to be burnt with little to no enrichment.
41), which establishes goals of reducing carbon intensity by 17% by 2015, compared with 2010 levels and raising energy consumption intensity by 16%, relative to GDP.
UNICA called for regulators to establish an empirical and "globally accepted methodology" to consider ILUC, with the participation of researchers and scientists from biofuel crop-producing countries.
He was formerly Director of the Danish Center for Energy Technology at the Department of Business Development and Technology and a professor of social sciences at Aarhus University.
Concept The concept behind Blackle is that computer monitors can use less energy by displaying darker colors.
More formal approaches to building performance appeared in the 1970s and 1980s, with seminal works being the book on Building Performance and CIB Report 64.
In 2018, the Delaware SEU was named Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 2018 Energy STAR Partner of the Year and received the EPA Energy STAR Excellence Award.
Lighting In EU politics Finnish government supported the delay in the banning of incandescent lightbulbs.
Practical tests showed that reclocking a GeForce GTX 480 can achieve a 28% lower power consumption while only decreasing performance by 1% for a given task.
KazRosGaz is a joint venture between KazMunaiGaz and Gazprom which is involved in the export and trade of gas with Russia.
Besides "Burboye Solar-1", the Zhambyl region implements nine projects of alternative energy sources.
On 6 May 2019 Nick Koolsbergen, who was the UCP's Alberta campaign manager for the winning election, announced the establishment of the Wellington Advocacy government relations firm with Harper & Associates' Rachel Curran.
When peak demand and annual energy use are low, costly and sophisticated central heating systems are only sometimes needed.
The International Energy Forum Secretariat is to ensure that the Forum is promoting a neutral platform for the exchange of information and views regarding conflicts and the future of the energy industry.
It has promoted actively professors John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt's book The Israel Lobby and U.S.
Tania Voon, a Professor in Law at the University of Melbourne, criticises the modernization of the ECT for not including a removal of the art.
In the plan, the member state sets out sectoral targets, the technology mix they expect to use, the trajectory they will follow, and the measures and reforms they will undertake to overcome the barriers to developing renewable energy.
Iraq, Morocco and Saudi Arabia also each spent over $3 million, and the non-Arab, Middle Eastern nation of Turkey also spent over $3 million.
Five of the questions reviewed and approved by the CEC were about LGBT rights, LGBT sex education and same-sex marriage.
Though decommissioning typically includes dismantling of the facility, it is not necessarily part of it as far as existing structures are reused after decommissioning and decontamination.,p.
Reducing huge national subsidies to domestic coal industries and promoting the lucrative market for nuclear power stations being the case in point.
The press reported her talks and sometimes referred to her as the "Paiute Princess" or "Indian princess".
The National Institute of Kathak Dance or Kathak Kendra was originally established as the Kathak wing of the Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra in 1955, and was later taken over by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's National Academy for Music, Dance and Drama in 1964.
After the Meiji restoration, Nakajima returned to Edo (now Tokyo), where she received an education in waka and calligraphy under Katō Chinami (加藤千浪).
Awards For her contributions to the arts, in 1966, she was awarded the Padma Shri Award, fourth highest civilian honours, by Government of India.
The school notably included Native American students from the Seneca, Ottawa, and Potawatomi tribes, who received full access to the curriculum.
In the following year, they removed to Denver, Colorado, where her husband founded a Methodist church, and became presiding elder at the age of 27 years.
His son, Rafael Gamzo, a member of the Israeli Foreign Service, served as head of the Cultural and Scientific Relations Division (Keshtum) at the Foreign Ministry and as Israel's ambassador to Portugal.
Clapp co-founded Reno's 20th Century Club, which in 1983 was added to the National Register of Historic Places listings in Washoe County, Nevada.
He was President of the school from 1911 to 1918, when he resigned and turned over the position to Aubrey H.
References The Life and Legacy of Joseph Burnett Joseph Burnett Family History descendants History of Joseph Burnett & Company
Gamzu wrote several books on Israeli painting and sculpture, and worked for Haaretz newspaper as an art and theater critic.
In 1912 he purchased an orange grove, soon developed a successful business as the owner of many citrus groves, and reduced his activity as a lawyer.
It was at Walden that he met his wife Ruth, a widow at the time, through her son David, a Walden student whom he later adopted.
1967, he became UBC Director of Continuing Studies and adjunct professor at the Faculty of Education.
In 1871, he built the triangular Hamilton House at Symphony Square Red River, an extant building in Austin Symphony Orchestra's Symphony Square on the banks of Waller Creek.
One of them, Aaron Garon, wrote a memoir about the academy, entitled “Sófye Gurévitsh un ir vílner gimnázye” ("Sofia Gurevich and her Vilna Academy"), that was published in 1995 in Oxford Yiddish 3; he credited Gurevitsh along with his parents for his achievements.
See also African American officeholders from the end of the Civil War until before 1900 References External links Photo circa 1870
Writings Williams had a strong interest in mathematics and philosophy, especially metaphysics, and she published several books centered on metaphysical rumination.
After traveling throughout Europe, she returned home and began teaching at Spinning Private School in South Orange, New Jersey.
In the capital city, she became acquainted with issues concerning women's equity and those that are important to teachers.
He received an honorary degree at Livingstone College; and was honored by Talladega College, which was bestowed by Booker T.
Bettison's family belong to the Cathcarts of Glasgow, Scotland, who, before coming to America in the seventeenth century, had settled in County Antrim, Ireland.
Women workers in India: studies in employment and status, with Leela Kasturi, Sulabha Brahme, Renana Jhabvala.
She was chaplain for two terms in the National Soldiers' Home near Augusta, the first woman who had filled that place, and had an invitation for a third term, when she resigned her pastorate in Hallowell for one in Marlborough, Massachusetts.
A Republican, he served as a Representative in the 12th Legislature, for Fayette County, Texas and Bastrop County from February 9, 1870, to January 14, 1873.
Mando was born June 18, 1846, in Schaghticoke, New York, and lived there until he was nine years old when he moved with his family to Lansingburgh.
While at the seminary, he also took classes in psychology and the history of philosophy at Princeton College, to the distress of some racist students who were attending Princeton from the South.
Waterstone's grandfather, Christian Sharps, was a well-known gunsmith who invented the sharps rifle, a 50-caliber gun used in the western United States to hunt buffalo.
The Presbytery of Fairfield issued Culp with a license on December 4, 1879; he was ordained on December 5, 1879.
Sanford, builder of churches and schools; forceful leader in community service; master of assemblies, able and eloquent minister of the word of God." References Fifty Years of Christian Education In a Baptist School — A Historical Record of Hargrave Military Academy 1909–1959.
Reily was appointed as one of the first trustees of Miami University, and was president of the board of trustees until 1824.
Wintzen said his support of the school was part of a plan to participate in the "immaterial economy." Along with the management team, Wintzen actively participated in the development of the long-term vision and goals for the school.
Calhoun), Martha Bulloch Roosevelt (mother of Theodore Roosevelt), Elizabeth Allston Pringle (daughter of S.C.
Stiles' A History of the City of Brooklyn: Including the Old Town and Village of Brooklyn, the Town of Bushwick, and the Village and City of Williamsburgh (1869) Bibliography Benardo, Leonard; Weiss, Jennifer (July 1, 2006).
Two school books were very successful, Barnets første bog (1879, and several editions thereafter) and Veiledning ved undervisning i samtidig læsning og skrivning efter lyd- og stavemethoden (Guidance on Teaching in Simultaneous Reading and Writing according to the Sound and Spelling method).
Mazumdar died at a hospital in Delhi on May 30, 2013, after a brief illness at the age of 86, and is survived by her children.
This book stands in a Victorian tradition of using fairies to explain the sciences (especially botany, through the folkloric connections between fairies and flowers).
Over the years, he authored several musical compositions and conducted concerts in several large cities.
In 1867, seeing the lack of a medical school in Guayaquil, he founded the Facultad de Medicina del Guayas, personally funding deficits and serving as its first dean.
His name endures at Hargrave Military Academy, where he was active for many years as co-founder, second President, and first chairman of the board of trustees.
In the summer of 1880, with public scholarship funding, she visited several countries to study their teaching methods for the deaf, and, as the only representative from the Nordic countries, she attended the Second International Congress on Education of the Deaf.
She served as principal of the Lansing Female Seminary; taught at Michigan Female College; and was the first instructor and librarian at the University of Nevada, Reno.
Williams' educational experiments drew international interest, and Williams College has been called "the first New Age institute".
They had eleven children; one of their daughters, Julia Tutwiler, became an important educator and advocate of prison reform in Alabama.
After some times he got an invitation to teach at the University of Hawaii and with the help of American friends he finally got a visa for Hawaii.
"Textual Performance and the Western Frontier: Sarah Winnemucca Hopkins's" Life Among the Piutes: Their Wrongs and Claims"." Western American Literature (2002): 170–194.
She organized the state's first private school and was co-founder of the state's first kindergarten.
Color name tags were also designed and attached to each model in place of the original folded paper name tags.
Principal photography began in Wilmington, North Carolina, on April 25, 2011, with some filming occurring at the Jungle Rapids water park and the Shaw-Speaks community center.
Western Kansas, 1918: Charles Sternberg and his sons Levi and George discover a 29-foot-long Tylosaurus that had a Dolichorhynchops in it.
North Dakota, 1995: Two amateur collectors go into a cave in North Dakota, and find a wealth of teeth from sharks, specifically Cretoxyrhina and Squalicorax.
Adaptations ITV commissioned a television series based on the books, with a planned air date of 2009, but it was later cancelled.
The story's time traveller who views this new refuse-covered habitat is gruesomely attacked by ravenous flesh-eating crows.
The percussion base was borrowed from Goldsmith's original motifs and he further used oil drums with the notion of the oil drum existing in the fictional kingdom.
The planet's ecosystem exhibits several unique adaptations, most notably the ability for all living organisms to detect and avoid solar flares.
Awards The Grierson Awards 2009, Winner, Best Science Documentary References External links Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life at IMDb Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life on the Eden website
External links Super Bonk 2 at The Bonk Compendium (covering all games and references to Bonk series) Super Bonk / Super Genjin Archived 2013-01-13 at the Wayback Machine at Hardcore Gaming 101 == References ==
The naked actors and married couple became famously known for their appearances in the 1991 sexually explicit educational video The Lovers' Guide.
This type of programming receives particular criticism when, as in the original broadcast of Mermaids: The Body Found, there are only a few, easily missed disclaimers to indicate the speculative nature of the programming.
At the foot of the pagoda forest there is a completely different ecosystem, governed by bioluminescent beings.
The film grossed $208,545,589 in the US & Canada and $500,290,000 in other countries, for a worldwide total of $708,835,589.
Box office The film made a small impact during its debut weekend in the United Kingdom, with receipts of just £242,889, placing it at number 8.
Ballantine Books (1976) Ballantine Books was the licensed publisher of Return to the Planet of the Apes tie-in fiction.
See also Last and First Men, book of Olaf Stapledon All Tomorrows, book of C.M Kosemen Man After Man, book of Dougal Dixon Human evolution References Dixon, Dougal (2002-03-14).
The book is written in the form of a field guide and natural history of the version of Skull Island and its creatures as presented in the film.
Gameplay Release and reception Super Genjin 2 was released for the Super Famicom in Japan on July 28, 1995.
This assumption is often referred to by critics as carbon chauvinism, as it may be possible for life to form that is not based on carbon.
Extraterrestrial mutants Ariel Broo Cerise Deathbird Longshot Thanos Ultra Girl Warlock Non-human Earth mutants Crosta Devil Dinosaur Don the Lobster Moon-Boy Val-Or Other mutations Children of the Vault: A species of super-powered beings created from a temporally accelerated cargo ship.
Rhinogradentia is a fictitious order of extinct shrew-like mammals invented by German zoologist Gerolf Steiner.
Episode novelizations (1974) Short story adaptations of Planet of the Apes (TV series) episodes written by George Alec Effinger.
Mock taxidermies of rhinogrades have also been included in an exhibit at the Musée d'ethnographie de Neuchâtel, and in the permanent collections of the Musée zoologique de la ville de Strasbourg and the Salzburg Haus der Natur.
This allows the user to catch fish and use selective breeding and mutation to create fish to their own tastes for placing them in virtual aquariums.
Wells' The Time Machine By the year AD 802,701, humanity has diverged into two separate species: the Eloi and the Morlocks.
251 Mya: start of the age of the dinosaurs The ninth station describes the Permian–Triassic extinction event that paved the way for the Mesozoic era and the evolution of dinosaurs.
They do not perform much work, except to feed, play, and mate, and are characterized by apathy; when Weena falls into a river, none of the other Eloi move to help her (she is rescued instead by the Time Traveller).
The Planet of the Apes novels began with Pierre Boulle's novel La Planète des singes was translated and reprinted several times after its original publication in 1963.
956" (from the turbulent section of Adagio used as the sublime second movement) was one of its haunting orchestral themes ever written also arranged by Irish classical music group The Vanbrugh Quartet with English cellist Louise Hopkins.
Series concept and scientific basis At the start of the documentary, the presenter and team of scientists draw attention to their reasons for speculating about life on extrasolar planets.
The album features musical score composed by John Paesano and was released through Hollywood Records alongside the film on May 10, 2024.
In the 1978 television film Sunn Classic Pictures produced the television film The Time Machine in 1978.
Reception The iOS version received "unfavorable" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.
Theodore Sturgeon praised The Invincible as "SF in the grand tradition", saying "The science is hard.
After Kyle refuses to save her because of his fear of piranhas, Barry, despite being unable to swim, leaps down and brings her to the surface, at which point Maddy is revived.
Recording Holopainen, Hietala and audio engineer Tero (TeeCee) Kinnunen recorded a 12-song demo from late April to 14 May 2014.
They were attempting to create software for INTEC (a company that they started) that would be made for "people's souls".
The game turn structure Each turn of the game consists of four phases: During each phase players act in order moving clockwise.
It is the sequel to the 2011 film Rise of the Planet of the Apes, which began 20th Century Fox's reboot of the original Planet of the Apes series.
He returns to his own time after completing his mission and again goes to the future to reunite with Weena.
Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is a 2014 American science fiction film directed by Matt Reeves and written by Mark Bomback, Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver.
HAL's point of view shots were created with a Cinerama Fairchild-Curtis wide-angle lens with a 160° angle of view.
In Greg Bear's Moving Mars In Greg Bear' Moving Mars novel, "Eloi" is a nickname for the age-extenders who leave Earth for Mars in order to avoid age restrictions on Earth.
Piranha 3DD was released in the United Kingdom on May 11, 2012, and in the United States on June 1, 2012, by Dimension Films.
The depiction is followed by a microscopic view of human fertilization, helping to explain the defensive behaviours of the ovum to prevent multiple sperm cells from fertilizing it.
A year later, investigators working for Kenova announced that they had obtained new DNA evidence relating to the murder of Thomas Oliver.
By that time, a confidential paper had been released within the IRA and Sinn Féin, referred to as the "TUAS document".
Belfast City Council agreed to develop a strategy regarding the removal of peace walls on 1 September 2011.
25th, an explosion, followed by gunfire, was heard resulting in the additional deaths of Eduardo Rodríguez Vega and José Santiago Barea.
Despite losing more than 4% of the vote share compared with 1925, the Unionist Party managed to pick up 4 seats.
The GIA fought the government, as well as the AIS, and began a series of massacres targeting entire neighborhoods or villages which peaked in 1997.
Condoleezza Rice (then the United States Secretary of State) stated: ...the United States has not transported anyone, and will not transport anyone, to a country when we believe he will be tortured.
Hodges of Florida State University, reviewing the book in Political Science Quarterly, claims that Lewis holds a bias against the guerrillas.
United States created a "major shift in the regional context" which ultimately persuaded the other Central American leaders to accept Nicaragua as an equal partner.
Sørbye participated in the Norwegian Campaign as a telegrapher, but the Norwegian forces in Trøndelag capitulated by 10 May 1940.
Nearly 700 civilians disappeared during the period between 1974 and 1977 after being detained by the Chilean military and police.
This was a remarkable performance, given that they had been without money, television exposure (because of censorship laws), or any sympathetic media.
Two years later, the Supreme Court sentenced Fernández Dittus to 600 days in prison for his responsibility in the burning death of Rojas de Negri and the serious burns sustained by Quintana.
The police accused Haque of being a drug dealer and claimed that he had been carrying two firearms and thousands of methamphetamine pills on him when he was killed.
The circumstances that led to Onifade's death were kept away from his family and from the public, and his body was not released to his family for burial.
The manual advises an interrogator to "manipulate the subject's environment, to create unpleasant or intolerable situations." The manual gives the suggestion that prisoners be deprived of sleep and food, and made to maintain rigid positions, such as standing at attention for long periods.
Advertisements appeared in local newspapers informing the Northern Ireland public that: "There's a new regiment in the army.
The program has begun to be tested with the help of collaborators from Iran and development continued also for the supporting network of servers and its security policy.
In 1983, it was made into a television film, Jacobo Timerman: Prisoner Without a Name, Cell Without a Number.
The brutal triple murder, which came to be known as Caso Degollados, evoked widespread indignation and compelled the Supreme Court to appoint Judge José Cánovas Robles as special prosecutor to investigate the crime.
He notes, however, that except for the omission of Abraham Guillén the book is a "well documented study".
Research by the BBC television programme Panorama suggested that Stakeknife was so highly prized that other agents were sacrificed to conceal his identity.
Arrests Two SPG members, John Weir and Billy McCaughey were arrested in 1979 and confessed to paramilitary activities.
Shortly after taking office as president, Raúl Alfonsín sent to Congress a bill to repeal the law, which was approved with Law No.
The Mothers of the Plaza 25 de Mayo were initially founded as a Rosario-based branch of the larger, national Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo, but later developed their own association to focus on forced disappearances in Santa Fe Province.
Originally few in number, they have multiplied over the years, from 18 in the early 1990s to at least 59 as of late 2017; in total they stretch over 34 kilometres (21 miles), with most located in Belfast.
Rojas, who had been in the country for only six weeks, decided to try to participate and document the barricades that were going up in different areas of Santiago.
The house is blanketed with flyers of the disappeared from decades earlier; Sara and Alma notice one of the men on the flyers is among the protesters.
However, some of the restrictions were lifted after Weir and another RUC officer met Harold McCusker, the local Unionist MP and asked for them to be lifted.
militant) gave an interview during a talk in Paraná on 22 March 2004, published in "Documents for debate Nº3", Libertarian Socialist Organization, where he spoke about the background of anarcho-syndicalism in Argentina and the theoretical support for the group.
By early 1958, he had organized a coup d'état, bringing together dissident army officers and pieds-noirs with sympathetic Gaullists.
Between 50,000 and 60,000 people demonstrated in downtown Buenos Aires in protest against the law, among them communists and peronists.
Resistencia Libertaria (initially known as the Resistencia Anticapitalista Libertaria) was an Argentine anarchist urban guerrilla group that emerged in 1974 via a network of workers and university militants from La Plata and Córdoba.
"H-Block" was a metonym for the Maze Prison and its H-shaped cell blocks, within which the hunger strike was taking place.
Reopening of the case in 2015 In July 2015, Minister Mario Carroza issued seven arrest warrants against military officials involved in the case.
Versions No authorized version of Matúška's lyrics has been preserved and its early records remained without attribution.
Meanwhile, the Court rejected the exception of res judicata that had acquitted Pedro Fernández Dittus in the first instance, who was also convicted as the author.
In 1935, Chardón initiated a project based on the ideas of Luis Muñoz Marín, who at the time was a Senator in the Puerto Rican legislature and member of the Liberal Party of Puerto Rico.
During the 1983 election campaign, the Radical Civic Union candidate Raúl Alfonsín had promised that there would be no impunity for the crimes of state terrorism.
Webcomics A webcomic called Persepolis 2.0 was created in 2009 by Iranian-born artists Payman and Sina whose subjects were the re-elections of conservative Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and the social turmoil that followed them.
For example, colorful scraps of material were usually cut into triangular pieces and placed along the horizon of an arpillera to represent the wealth and beauty of Chile through various regions and seasons.
Based on an initial assessment he claimed that the files related to Stakeknife and not to other Kenova investigations, including Denton.
Description The Monument to the Reconciliation was located at the intersection of the Monseñor Óscar Arnulfo Romero Boulevard and Jerusalén Boulevard in San Salvador.
The witness acknowledged that, at that time, he had been pressured to give a false statement to the military justice system.
While the formation of Bronze section led directly to the creation of "E" Department within Special Branch the best known of which is the E4A department which dealt with humint and E4B which specialised in intelligence led operations etc.
About In places covered by ice sheets during ice ages, such as Scandinavia, northern North America, and Siberia, glacial erratics are common.
Such temporary exposed stairways are sometimes used in conjunction with scaffolding on construction sites, or permanently as an emergency exit.
Examples See also References External links Media related to Balconies at Wikimedia Commons "Balcony" .
William Kempster (1651–1717) was an English master stonemason who worked with Sir Christopher Wren on St Paul's Cathedral.
Marigolds could grow perennially in untilled fields, and their juice and flowers were reputed to have many benefits from soothing eye irritation to relieving tooth pain.
A riwaq (or rivaq, Arabic: رواق riwāq or ruwāq) is an arcade or portico (if in front of entrances) open on at least one side.
The fishermen would walk to the centre of the labyrinth, enticing the spirits to follow them, and then run out and put to sea.
The path to the stone circle center, which is the herb garden, is surrounded by a rock wall, earthy grounds, and lavender.
Security electric fences consist of wires that carry pulses of electric current to provide a non-lethal shock to deter potential intruders.
The Lavender Labyrinth is a three acre garden located 1.5 miles south of Silver Lake in Shelby, Michigan and 1.2 miles east of Lake Michigan.
Decoration When repairs were conducted in the mid-2nd century BC, the fountainhouse was decorated with a fresco of a river god with three nymphs.
Since the 1970s there has been an interest in using indigenous species for lawns, especially considering their lower water requirements.
Legged lanterns Yukimi-dōrō (雪見燈籠), or legged lanterns, have as a base not a post but from one to six curved legs, and a wide umbrella with a finial either low or absent.
Colour and placement is important to ensuring that bat boxes are used; bat boxes that are too shaded will not heat up enough to attract a maternity colony of bats.
It is not known whether statues were placed in Greek domestic gardens but the Romans transported a great many statues to Italy and placed them in gardens for ornamental reasons.
They can also be used inside a building, for example as a grid behind windows or skylights to prevent people from climbing through.
It is one of the world's largest botanical gardens, with an extensive collection of living plants and a herbarium of about 4 million specimens.
The walled gardens contain old-fashioned roses and wisteria, an ornamental vegetable garden, maze (laid to grass with brick paths, dedicated by Archbishop Robert Runcie on 12 October 1981) and ice house.
Legged lanterns were probably developed during the Momoyama period, but the oldest extant examples, found at the Katsura Villa in Kyoto, go back only to the early Edo period.
As cultivated grasses became valued for their nutritional benefits to livestock, farmers relied less and less on natural meadows in the more colonized areas of the country.
Water was a much-desired feature; at least a trickle, often flowing over the rocks to make them glisten.
The Natatorium was later incorporated into the Northside Swim Center when the center opened in 2013, though it retains the name NISD Natatorium.
Sufficient vertical clearance between upper and lower handrails, 9 inches minimum, should be provided to help prevent entrapment.
It was designed by Archibald Skinner and opened in May 1935 as part of the celebrations for the Silver Jubilee of George V.
It is the newest amusement park in Finland, although for the time being it has only a limited number of pre-owned rides on its ride list.
The complex is also an access point to the Trillium Woods, a 15-kilometre multi-use trail network for hiking and mountain biking.
Examples Riwaq arcade examples include: The Saudi Riwaq - portico expansion at the Masjid al-Haram mosque Makkah Along the main avenues of the Bazaar of Kashan, in present-day Iran.
The most original fountain in the exposition was Les Sources et les Rivières de France, made by René Lalique.
Stair rods consists of a long bar, either solid core or tube (hollow core), and brackets used to hold the bar in place.
A storage bench is a combination of sitting space and a storage box, often used for keeping gardening supplies or grill equipment.
The loggias now form part of the ceremonial route for distinguished visitors, but are not otherwise on the tourist route.
A patio (Spanish for 'courtyard, forecourt, yard, little garden') is an outdoor space generally used for dining or recreation that adjoins a structure and is typically paved.
Description The large pool is mushroom shaped with a shallow area for children, including slide, and deeper circular area 46 m in diameter.
Thought to have its origins in the optical illusion of large, driving (wind blown) raindrops appearing to greatly elongate.
As the château had been constructed with the purpose of short stays, it was not practical to live in on a longer-term basis.
While common in Europe even before 1900, eating outdoors at restaurants in North America was exotic until the 1940s.
During this period, the pool was reserved for soldiers that served the Japanese and used salt water instead of fresh water.
A stair rod, also commonly referred to as a carpet rod, is an ornamental decorative hardware item used to hold carpeting in place on steps.
They were decorated in fresco around 1519 by Raphael's large team of artists, with Giovanni da Udine involved.
In 1951, the second public pool was planned to be built at Yan Kit Road, Tanjong Pagar, at a cost of S$380,000.
In addition to outdoor swimming and diving facilities, the complex includes indoor swimming facilities in the Northside Independent School District (NISD) Natatorium.
Thus if dead-end filling is done on a perfect maze (maze with no loops), then only the solution will remain.
Round Up has been in three other Finnish amusement parks: 1961–1976 in Linnanmäki, 1977 in Särkänniemi and 1986–2002 in Tykkimäki, before it came to Nokkakivi park for its opening season.
These boulders are called "erratic" because they typically are of a different rock type than the bedrock on which they are deposited.
