In 2018, Nick Lucchesi of Inverse wrote about how ProtonMail was promoting how to "be able to completely de-Google-fy your life".
History In October 2013, Snapchat first introduced the story function as a series of Snaps that can together tell a narrative through a chronological order, with each Snap being viewable by all of the poster's friends and deleted after 24 hours.
In 1980s and 1990s American politics, "Atari Democrat" referred to Democratic legislators who suggested that the support and development of high tech and related businesses would stimulate the economy and create jobs.
A movement of techno-utopianism began to flourish again in the dot-com culture of the 1990s, particularly in the West Coast of the United States, especially based around Silicon Valley.
In some, but not most cases, the ISPs provide subscriber-configurable settings to disable hijacking of NXDOMAIN responses.
Ars Electronica: Facing the Future: A Survey of Two Decades (Electronic Culture: History, Theory, and Practice).
On 5 December 2012, the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution opposing UN governance of the Internet by a rare unanimous 397–0 vote.
"What Barbrook is saying between the lines is that the people with their hands on the reins of power in all of the wired world...are guided by an utterly skewed philosophical construct." Hudson maintained that there were a multitude of different ideologies at work.
In 1976, Indonesia established the Industri Pesawat Terban Nusantara or IPTN, which is a government issued company that specializes in air and space travel.
industrial property register — an official database containing registered trade marks, as well as patented inventions, industrial designs, utility models, or integrated circuits, thus protecting and reserving the rights of the company which developed them or bought rights to them.
FragDenStaat is a Berlin and Brussels-based NGO run by the Open Knowledge Foundation Germany focused on the right to information.
TXT CSC – This is an SMS service launched by Civil Service Commission in Philippines to increase the efficiency and speed of service delivery.
Ownership Based in Stockholm, PRQ was created by Gottfrid Svartholm and Fredrik Neij, two founders of The Pirate Bay.
The first pilot projects were realized at San Ramon and San Pedro, Honduras, in cooperation with the local Ministry of Science and Technologies, following the devastation from Hurricane Mitch.
The Pirate Party of Israel or Piratim (Hebrew: הַפִּירָאטִים) is a political party in Israel founded in 2012 by past members of the Holocaust Survivors and Grown-Up Green Leaf Party and Ale Yarok to promote the values of the international Pirate Party movement.
These features include unique customization options like fonts, colors, themes, and others; 256-bit AES encryption; tagging; importing and exporting (as, for example, a PDF); rich text formatting; the ability to post by email; reminders; and numerous others.
At its 13th edition, the Infopoverty World Conference saw the participation of more than 100 international organizations, hundreds of from Governments, international and regional organizations, public and private institutions and the civil society and 63 countries.
"split-tunnel" VPNs, where traffic can still be sent over the local network interface even when the VPN is active.
"Traffy" is derived from traffic, while "fondue" is derived from the Thai "fongdu", meaning "to report".
The ACLU described the requirement for a photo ID as a "poll tax" on citizens who would be required to purchase a photo ID if they did not already have one.
National pirate parties Super-national pirate parties Sub-national and regional pirate parties Youth wings Pirate Parties of micronations and other unrecognised states == References ==
The limitation of that approach is that it only prevents hijacking on those particular domains, but it may address some VPN security issues caused by DNS hijacking.
The ideas presented are very similar with minor differences in the final definition of d {\displaystyle d} .
The Venus Project is a 501(c) nonprofit organization founded by architect and social engineer Jacque Fresco.
Policies will also only be adopted after the completion of an online seven-day voting period, where all full members may take part.
Content and appearance A live blog is a single post which is continuously updated with timestamped micro-updates which are placed above previous micro-updates.
Among oldest BytesForAll also describes itself as "being one of the oldest network on ICT4D issues in South Asia".
See also Right to repair References & 53-6-1; External links Official website "Public.Resource.Org".
It is debatable whether or not this practice is at odds with the domain registration requirement of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).
In August 2009, it was claimed that Pirate Party UK was undergoing rapid growth similar to one the Swedish Pirate Party had enjoyed in early 2009.
Using completely anonymous web browsers such as Tor Browser which not only makes user anonymous, but also doesn't require any dns to be set up on the operating system.
Although many emails are encrypted during transmission, they are frequently stored in plaintext, potentially exposing them to unauthorized access by third parties, including email service providers.
In addition, up to the COVID-19 pandemic, emissions have only increased in the transport economic sector.
In 2013, John Koetsier of Venturebeat said Amazon's Kindle Fire Android-based tablet was "a de-Google-ized version of Android".
The organization is still in process of reorganizing the Pirate Party in Turkey and getting interest of the new generation by following the agenda and participating in youth movements.
This is much riskier and prone to fluctuation than a system of trust that is based on reputation because performance does not consider past actions.
According to him, "American neo-liberalism seems to have successfully achieved the contradictory aims of reactionary modernism: economic progress and social immobility.
Online registration of companies and register is available in the center of state services Bir Darcha.
We must restrict access to our free service during peak usage times to ensure the best possible experience for paid subscribers.
T-Mobile confirmed that the data collected by the hackers included sensitive personal information, such as the first and last names, birthdates, driver's license/ID numbers, and Social Security numbers.
While governments begin pondering questions such as, "is Internet access a right?", ideas on how to approach this issue fall along political party lines.
The Golden Projects are several e-government projects carried by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
On the other hand, in Australia, Jacqui Lambie of the Jacqui Lambie Network was supportive of the COVID-19 vaccination.
After Association is successful the 4-way handshake can occur, and from then on data frames are encrypted.
Voluntary Voting System Guidelines HAVA tasks the EAC with creating and maintaining the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG).
Approving $950 million in funding to improve, expand, and harden communications networks in Puerto Rico and the U.S.
Although free searches are offered, a message may appear: "Proxify is experiencing higher than normal traffic volume.
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ran a refugee camp in Tanzania where the Global Catalyst Foundation had placed computers and communications equipment for the use of the Burundian refugees confined there.
This way, the search engine cannot make a useful profile of any individual user in the group since it has no way to discern which query actually belonged to each user.
According to UK's DPA, the ICO, report, companies involved in RTB "were collecting and trading information such as race, sexuality, health status or political affiliation" without consent from affected users.
Both defendants were ordered to pay damages of 5,000 euros to the Brittany Water and Rivers Association and 3,000 euros to the CLCV (Consommation Logement Cadre de vie), one of the two main general consumer associations in France.
The organization's stated mission is to "lift up and amplify the voice of the American people so loudly that it cannot be ignored in the halls of power." Founded in 2024 by public opinion pollster Scott Rasmussen, the organization is named in honor of political consultant Joseph Napolitan.
to receive the chips cut from the edge of the tape." A 1938 patent filing included a "chaff or chad chute" to collect the waste fragments.
As CAE wear lab-coats and appear as professional scientists, they simulate actual biotechnology corporations, emphasizing their intentions even further.
The programmes are developed and governed by the EITCI Institute – a non-profit organization based in Brussels, that provides certification of individuals' knowledge and skills in broad field-oriented areas of ICT expertise such as Computer graphics, Information security etc.
She eventually managed to have her account reinstated; however, users with the surname Kills The Enemy are, as of 2015, still required by Facebook to spell their surname without spaces as a single word.
This feature includes the software to identify photos that users are tagged in by developing a template based on one's facial features.What is the face recognition setting on Facebook and how does it work?
The 2020s saw the increase in popularity of Russian-American channels Vlad and Niki and Like Nastya and Ukrainian-American channel Kids Diana Show who according to R.T.
The company released print media and published pieces about its commitment to developing electric and hybrid vehicle models to improve its CSR image.
Engineering company Rolls-Royce wrote to employees to say that it did not want the UK to leave the EU.
Controversy Steve Kurtz's Trial In 2004, one of its founders, Steve Kurtz, was arrested on suspicion of bioterrorism.
Contamination of surface water or ground water from leaching, runoff, and spray drift” on farms across the country.
The Do Not Track specification did not explicitly mandate that the use of Do Not Track actually be a choice until after the feature was implemented in Internet Explorer 10.
Consumers typically build a connection with the influencers they closely follow, which affects their purchasing decisions.
This number is normally formed using the patient's date of birth (as DDMMYY), followed by four digits: two digits randomly generated, the third digit identifying gender (odd for men, even for women) and a check digit (Modulus-11).
The group opposes measures in the draft Online Safety Bill introduced in 2021, that it sees as infringing free speech rights and online anonymity.
After the positive feedback over the open call of the party, the two initiated the organizing process and contacted Pirate Party of Sweden for suggestions.
This is done so that they can help spread awareness of the threats to unrestricted speech in new media.
The sessions to debate outsourcing in May 2015; the zika virus in February 2016; and labor reform in May 2017 had a considerable participation.
Usage Identity scoring can be used in a variety of ways, from identity verification and measuring fraud risk on the enterprise level, to preventing fraudulent use of identities and synthetic identity theft on the consumer level.
On a per capita basis, this is matched by current digital storage (5×1021 bytes per 7.2×109 people).
Public.Resource.Org is a United States court case concerning copyright of published building codes and fire codes and public access to the same.
Legacy In the 1970s, the poem became associated with the appropriate technology movement and the name Loving Grace Cybernetics was adopted by the hippie-hacker group operating Community Memory, the first bulletin board system based in a record store in Berkeley.
The argument with or without transparency was mentioned previously and highlights major issues such as losing governmental trust or privacy issues with accountability.
ICMS for Government Agencies All Singapore government agencies involved in criminal justice system are linked to the ICMS.
Using a community-created 3D avatar of Roy Merritt to coordinate a counterattack, the holon of Greely is able to defeat the assault force.
According to one anonymous official speaking to a Wall Street Journal reporter, first, a pre-selection is done by the telecommunication providers themselves, who select traffic (including the text of emails and the audio of telephone calls) that most likely contains foreign communications.
Privacy issues Digital footprints are not a digital identity or passport, but the content and metadata collected impacts internet privacy, trust, security, digital reputation, and recommendation.
The summit itself was marred by criticism of Tunisia for allowing attacks on journalists and human rights defenders to occur in the days leading up to the event.
In the United States of America, a vote center, sometimes known as a super precinct, is a polling place that combines multiple precincts allowing voters to choose at which location to vote regardless of their home address.
In Nepal, 10 prominent bloggers signed a Code of Ethics for Bloggers, first proposed by Ujjwal Acharya and finalized after discussion among bloggers, on July 27, 2011.
As an alternative, some legal scholars argue that soft law approaches to AI regulation are promising, as they offer greater flexibility to adapt to emerging technologies and the evolving nature of AI applications.
Berdy, Dobrochna Dyrcz-Freeman, and Marian Schwartz (Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1996) The unknown Lenin, Yale University Press, 1996, trans.
Students collectively identify a common challenge facing their community and prepare an action plan to overcome it.
For financial information, the Federal Trade Commission permits its circulation if it is de-identified and aggregated.
It did this by cross-referencing the edits with data on the owners of the associated block of IP addresses, though it did not investigate edits made under a username.
In a reverse of this idea, well-off families, especially the tech-savvy parents in Silicon Valley, carefully limit their own children's screen time.
Its interests include: Access to knowledge Copyright Creative Commons Free and open source software The public domain Crown copyright Digital Restrictions Management Software patents Free speech and censorship Internet filtering Right to parody s.
Stage theory The most widely accepted model is called "stage theory" based on the work by Richard Atkinson and Richard Shiffrin shown in figure 1.
Palak further explained that the websites had vulnerabilities that were exploited, resulting in the exposure of citizens' personal data.
All of this has led to many concerns that users are displaying far too much information on social networking sites which may have serious implications on their privacy.
Depending on the implementation of the ICMP tunneling software, this type of connection can also be categorized as an encrypted communication channel between two computers.
Similarly in Pakistan, PAK Education Society/Pakistan Development Network had taken the initiative to build Pakistan Knowledge Economy or Information Society.
While parents may assume that privacy settings may prevent children's photos and data from being exposed, they also have to trust that their followers will not be compromised.
It is estimated that, the world's technological capacity to store information grew from 2.6 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 1986, which is the informational equivalent to less than one 730-MB CD-ROM per person in 1986 (539 MB per person), to 295 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007.
More than 20% of people aged 18 to 24 use Instagram stories, while it is just under 2% of those over 55.
Under all four programs, the collection takes place in cooperation with commercial telecommunication companies, both inside and outside the US.
Legal scholars have questioned the constitutionality of the doctrine, and indicated that it has been used to silence minorities such as gay men in the past.
The event was sponsored by The National Science Foundation, Election Systems & Software, and Hewlett-Packard Company.
Technolibertarianism, sometimes referred to as cyberlibertarianism, is a political ideology with roots in the Internet's early hacker cypherpunk culture in Silicon Valley in the early 1990s and in American libertarianism.
At the time it was merged into data.europa.eu, around 70 EU institutions, bodies or departments (e.g.
It is read by campaigners, activists at the grassroots, people involved with actual projects, funders, key players in the development debate and also academics in both South and North.
History Founding In June 2012, the party issued invitations to a kickoff meeting to be held in Trondheim on the 16th, with the intention of agreeing on a strategy to obtain the 5,000 signatures required by law to register a political party.
"OWE is a means of adding encryption to open networks...OWE only protects against passive attacks." Opportunistic Wireless Encryption is a Wi-Fi Enhanced Open authentication mode, as a part of Wi-Fi Protected Access 3.
The service was launched in 2003 by Google critic Daniel Brandt, who was concerned about Google collecting personal information on its users.
Ethical Dilemmas in IT Audits The Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in IT audits is growing rapidly, with 30% of all corporate audits to be conducted using AI by 2025 as reported by the World Economic forum from 2015.
The emission model (expert version only) for the computation of overall emissions either on an aggregated spatial level for a particular area (e.g.
Authors should create the novel online through the daily posts and not simply cut and paste already written novels into blog posts.
Consequently, third-party browsers cannot use their own rendering engines and must depend on Apple's framework instead.
"A Survey of Anonymous Peer-to-Peer File-Sharing." In Proceedings of the IFIP International Symposium on Network-Centric Ubiquitous Systems (NCUS 2005), Nagasaki, Japan, volume 3823 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 744–755.
Also, at the time, most newspapers were not political neutral, with many papers being controlled by either conservative forces, the labour movement or political parties.
The opinion notes that while precedents establish that judicial opinion cannot be copyrighted, they do not exclude the notes prepared by an official court reporter published together with reported opinions from copyright protection.
The IndigoTrust funded roll-out to further countries, with a particular focus on the provision of transparency websites for sub-Saharan Africa.
Additionally, the government launched an investigation into the incident to ascertain the extent of the data exposure and identify the parties responsible for the security weaknesses.
Other countries are less available, such as Brazil, due to lack of The Crew's sales data, or the United States, which Scott wrote off as a fruitful legal or political arena for any initiative as a result of the precedent set by the court ruling ProCD, Inc.
2014 federal and regional elections In the federal election of 25 May 2014, the Pirate Party participated in the Flemish constituencies of Antwerp (0.98%), East Flanders (0.82%) and Limburg (0.71%) as well as the Walloon constituencies of Hainaut (0.80%) and Liège (0.63%).
It failed to make much impact on the US and European regulators, but may have had more influence in its later manifestations in Asia and particularly China.
Many F2F networks support indirect anonymous or pseudonymous communication between users who do not know or trust one another.
In October 2014, the FBI searched a house in Chicago, Illinois, and seized several computers, cellphones and storage drives after tracking the source of a hacking attack to an IP address linked to an individual named Emilio Herrera.
Integration could be the hardest issue to overcome since it can be argued that corporate culture must change to accommodate microblogging.
The extension became very popular with over 100,000 users by September 2014, and in the same year it was selected by the National Library of Australia to be included in its Pandora Archive.
However, it also criticised Western media reaction following the 2022 missile explosion in Poland, accusing such media of not taking the risk of a major escalation with Russia seriously enough.
Party Leaders Sources: Svein Mork Dahl (2019–present) Thomas Gramstad (2017–2019) Tale Haukbjørk Østrådal (2015–2017) Øystein Bruås Jakobsen (2013–2015) Geir Aaslid (2012–2013) Parliamentary Election results == References ==
He also said that "ultimately, the Barrington Declaration is based on principles that are dangerous to national and global public health".
Objections to the SFDIS While most will agree that the goal of easing the digital divide is a good one, many informed people have raised objections to franchise contract with EarthLink/Google.
On 23 and 24 March 2013 there was the first Occasional Assembly (Assemblea Occasionale, AO), the congress of the Pirate Party, in Milan.
can only be filed using the USPTO online Electronic System for Trademark Trials and Appeals." (Emphasis in original.) References External links Official website
Global Centre for ICT in Parliament Another outcome of the WSIS is the Global Centre for ICT in Parliament.
Reports on global connectivity emphasize the need for expanded digital infrastructure, affordable services and digital skills training that ensures the expanding Internet access benefits a broader range of population worldwide.
This means that for a user who deletes all their cookies regularly, a site using this would still be able to personalize to that specific user.
To circumvent this security barrier, the attacker can use browser-leak methods, to distinguish subtle differences between different responses.
While the project was officially launched on June 30, 2009, Brazil has been participating in the LexML community since 2006.
They said that the more likely outcome would be recurrent epidemics, as was the case with numerous infectious diseases before the advent of vaccination.
public aid register — an official register of businesses in difficulties which received aid from the state.
Although visionaries like Yuval Noah Harari do mention the possibility of a negligible senescence society Noah also remarks that he seems this is not likely to happen in the 21st century.
After FragDenStaat brought a negative declaratory action, the Berlin Court of Appeal ruled that the warning had no legal basis.
Outline In his book titled Technoliberalism, Adam Fish describes technoliberalism as a belief that networked technologies ameliorate the contradictions of a society that cherishes both the free market of economic liberalism and the social welfare of social liberalism.
IV systems can include some Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) systems, End-to-end auditable voting systems, witness systems, and some optical scan voting systems.
Rowling, and figures from journalism and broadcasting: Jeremy Paxman, Nick Davies, Paul McMullan, Alastair Campbell, Piers Morgan, Kelvin MacKenzie, Richard Desmond, Ian Hislop, James Harding, Alan Rusbridger, Mark Thompson, Lord Patten, Michael Grade, Lord Hunt and Paul Dacre.
Local authorities and anti-paedophilia activists in Sweden have failed to persuade PRQ to close the sites.
Crypto-anarchy, crypto-anarchism, digital anarchism, cyberanarchy, or cyberanarchism is a current of anarchism focusing on the protection of privacy, political freedom, counter-surveillance, hacktivism and economic freedom.
showed using the then-newly introduced application cache, a website could instruct the browser to disregard and override any caching directive the victim website sends.
Fitzpatrick, ISBN 1-58648-018-9, ISBN 978-1-58648-018-9 See also Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union == References ==
During the Spanish general election 2011, the Internet Party presented eight candidates in the electoral district of Cádiz and received 603 votes (0.09%).
Reset San Francisco is a Gov 2.0 website founded by Phil Ting, the assessor-recorder for the city of San Francisco.
History The Pirate Party of Slovenia and its original founder Robert Pal first appeared in the Slovenian media in 2009.
Its objective is to establish open data systems, integrate work processes and share data, in the context of identifying and structuring executive, legislative and judiciary documents.
The number of synaptic operations per second in a human brain has been estimated to lie between 1015 and 1017.
This prompted the Communications and Freedom of Expression Commission of the Senate to ask ENACOM officials for an explanation and competitor Telefónica to announce legal action for "discriminatory treatment", as it had to pay for its 4G spectrum in a 2014 auction.
The International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance (ICEGOV) is an annual conference concerning electronic governance coordinated by the United Nations University Operating Unit on Policy-Driven Electronic Governance (UNU-EGOV).
Babbs was formerly Head of Activism at Friends of the Earth where he was responsible for the Big Ask Campaign.
However, its role has expanded over the decades and it now also provides Scottish local authorities with a Unique Citizen Reference Number or UCRN used to identify people on their own databases.
It incorporates indicators that assess the areas of universal access, freedom and openness, relevant content, and empowerment, which indicate economic, social, and political impacts of the Web.
This combination makes it possible to detect certain attacks that neither the IDS/IPS nor the stateful firewall can catch on their own.
The association organizes conferences, workshops, publishes e-books, as well as contributes to the organization of online and offline campaigns against internet censorship, mass surveillance.
There has been some research identifying this proliferation of laws and bureaucracy as partly responsible for many economic activities going 'underground'.
Process Like film or television awarding committees, blog awards are started by a certain body, usually composed of blog enthusiasts.
In 2014 only three countries (China, US, Japan) host 50% of the globally installed bandwidth potential.
Since January 2004, smartvote has been operated by Politools (Politools – Political Research Network) – a registered society based in Bern, being neutral in its politics and having no allegiance to a particular religious denomination, in the sense of Article 60 et sqq.
In the 2013 regional elections in Lazio the Party candidated Arturo Di Corinto as independent in Left Ecology Freedom, but he was not elected.
Digitalcourage – known until November 2012 as FoeBuD (German: Verein zur Förderung des öffentlichen bewegten und unbewegten Datenverkehrs) – is a German privacy and digital rights organisation.
The 33 1⁄3 phonograph record was issued by Harvest Records based on a recording Brautigan recorded at Golden State Recorders in San Francisco.
Response Huawei In 2019, Huawei gave a refund to phone owners in the Philippines who were inhibited from using services provided by Google because so few alternatives exist that the absence of the company's products made normal internet use unfeasible.
However, Iain Duncan Smith said Carney's comment should be taken with "a pinch of salt", saying "all forecasts in the end are wrong".
Political scientists Vladimír Naxera, Ondřej Stulík, and Vojtěch Kaše criticised the creation of new subdivisions of populism, including valence populism, due to the categories creating ambiguity in academic literature.
As such, Kryder's law prescribes that the amount of storage space available appears to be growing approximately exponentially.
[Hence,] we hear little about the experiences of the common soldiery." Reviews The reviews are generally mixed.
The Court finally observes that a decision allowing copyright protection for anything merely falling short of being classified as a statute or a judicial opinion would result in First Amendment concerns.
BoingBoing, one of the blogs critical of the MBA, issued a corrective stating that it was the Associated Press and the New York Times which implied that the MBA was acting on behalf of all bloggers, and not the MBA itself.
He rescues Sebeck from being killed and then uses his Darknet power to dispatch an enormous army of AutoM8s and Razorbacks to level Sky Ranch, hellbent on killing the Major.
As of 3 May 2023, the PSW has expanded its operations to encompass all dry ports across Pakistan, excluding Quetta.
These documents cover a wide range of topics such as regulation and governance, as well as industrial strategy, research, talent and infrastructure.
Such entities can still use information such as IP addresses and user accounts to uniquely identify users.
Empower Americans to draft or evaluate Unity08 candidates and actively engage them in debate about the crucial issues.
Effects In 2018, The Guardian reported on a Los Angeles summer camp called LA Star Education which taught children how to become YouTubers by making toy unboxing videos.
Audiences often trust the endorsement of influencers because, while they can be sponsored, they are loyal to their followers and have the freedom to design their messages.
See also References Further reading Jane Fountain, Building the Virtual State: Information Technology and Institutional Change (2001) Encyclopedia of Digital Government.
Launched in August 2010, the website is designed to give the residents of San Francisco Web 2.0 tools through which to engage in city issues.
For Latin America it is estimated that the borderline between ICT as a necessity good and ICT as a luxury good is roughly around the "magical number" of US$10 per person per month, or US$120 per year.
In 2019, the Pirate Party ran with its list in the European Parliament election, obtaining 0.23% of the votes.
These cultures believe that the self has become a subjective concept on the online spaces; by logging onto their profiles, users are essentially freed from the prison of a physical body and can "create a narrative of the self in virtual space that may be entirely new".
Although aging populations in population pyramids result in "constructive" pyramids which are narrowed at the bottom, this might not necessarily be the case in the aging population in a negligible senescence scenario.
In addition, by bringing together these diverse elements, NetDay establishes a framework for lasting partnerships among business, government, educational institutions, and local communities to provide ongoing support for our schools.
Near-term practical proposals closely associated with post-work theory include the implementation of a universal basic income and the reduction of the length of a working day and the number of days of a working week.
Traffy Fondue (Thai: ทราฟฟี่ฟองดูว์ ) is a digital platform developed by Thailand's National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), under the National Science and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA).
In January 2007, an MBA member received press credentials identical to those of broadcast and print journalists at a federal court, to cover the trial of Lewis Libby, alongside bloggers from more established sites including Firedoglake, the Huffington Post, and Daily Kos.
To ensure adoption and implementation of the framework in time bound manner the government will develop Mobile Service Delivery Gateway (MSDG) that is the core infrastructure for enabling the availability of public services in through mobile devices.
The movement emphasizes that knowledge is a shared social good that should be available to all people, regardless of geography or economic status.
These systems have greatly reduced the margin of error on audits and provide a better insight into the data being analyzed.
Stamm was, at the time, a privacy engineer at Mozilla, while Soghoian soon afterward started working at the FTC.
Emergent democracy is said to work the same way, that once people's minds are plugged into the system, collective signal triggers are revealed, resulting result to new ideas and a new way of looking at the world as these minds coalesce.
On August 16, T-Mobile publicly confirmed that the company had been subject to a data breach but declined to say whether any customers' personal information was accessed or how widespread the damage was.
Recent media attention has focused on efforts related to terrorists and their own attempts to conduct an online or electronic intifada - cyberterrorism.
One of the most well-known software applications that leverage phoning home for tracking is Absolute Software's CompuTrace.
Witnesses Oral evidence was taken at the Royal Courts of Justice, and was streamed live over the Internet.
Web scraping tools Following web scraping tools can be used as alternatives for contact scraping: UzunExt is an approach of data scraping in which string methods and crawling process are applied to extract information without using a DOM Tree .
The DNT header accepts three values: 1 in case the user does not want to be tracked (opt-out), 00 in case the user consents to be tracked (opt-in), or null (no header sent) if the user has not expressed a preference.
Proximity of a negligible senescence society The timeline wherein humanity will achieve a negligible senescence scenario is unclear.
Other theories There are many recent theories concerning information processing that differ from the stage theory model.
thereby leaving a movable, or hinged, lid of paper in the tape." In the New Hacker's Dictionary, two unattributed and likely humorous derivations for "chad" are offered, a back-formation from a personal name "Chadless" and an acronym for "Card Hole Aggregate Debris".
They also cite the Fort Laramie Treaties of 1851 and 1868, which promised the land that DAPL runs through to the Lakota's land.
Peas, beans, and vetches became common; they increased soil fertility through nitrogen fixation, allowing more livestock to be kept.
The law applies to any information generated or held by state authorities, local authorities and other entities obliged under the law.
The date originates from London, England, 17 August 1897, when a woman named Bridget Driscoll was killed by a car driver, which is considered the first recorded road traffic fatality in the world.
Since 2016, as a result of the efforts of Humane Society International Mexico and local organizations, the event no longer has this type of practices, instead featuring various sports and cultural activities.
The intention of the pure land is to assure that the individual achieves their personal goals in life—the betterment of oneself in order to reach nirvana.
Dogs in religion hold various symbolic and cultural meanings across different religions and belief systems.
International law Nationality is the status that allows a nation to grant rights to the subject and to impose obligations upon the subject.
However, in most modern countries all nationals are citizens of the state, and full citizens are always nationals of the state.
Powers The Commissioner can take a judicial review regarding the treatment of older people to court.
Support and opposition In addition to support from the American Automobile Association, Right to Repair's primary support is from the Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association, Coalition for Auto Repair Equality (CARE) and a number of state groups representing the repair industry.
Daniele Archibugi and Alice Pease, Crime and Global Justice: The Dynamics of International Punishment, Cambridge: Polity Press, 2018.
In captive environments, animals may develop stereotypic behaviors, repetitive, functionless actions such as pacing, rocking, or self-harm.
Police sent the detainees to the regional headquarters before splitting them up into about eight police stations dotted across the capital, even as colleague protesters and lawyers worked to secure bail for the illegally detained people.
It consists of individuals who have been wrongfully detained through various channels, including criminal conviction, hostage diplomacy, and kidnapping.
Australia Self-determination has become the topic of some debate in Australia in relation to Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders.
For the purpose of the criminal law, what mattered was whether Lindon believed that his actions were reasonable.
The police The Ghana Police, in an attempt to stop the demonstration from happening, filed an injunction at the Accra High Court on September 19, 2023.
For example, under a settlement of property the respondent "the son" would have been entitled to an equal portion of properties along with his other siblings which was gained in a settlement by his mother.
According to the World Health Organization, pedestrians account for 22% of all road traffic deaths worldwide.
On the opposite side, some governments links this analysis directly to prison terms, not complying to nulla poena sine lege principle.
Also, the Judge deemed that the search warrant that was used to enter Parasiris's suburban home was illegal.
Crofters had the right to be paid for land improvements, such as erecting fences and drainage A standard of reasonable rent was established and required.
In Slovenia access to public information is regulated by the Access to Public Information Act (2004), the Decree on communication and re-use of information of a public nature (2005) and the decree amending it (2007), and the Information Commissioner Act (2005).
This criterion is used in the international law justification of preemptive self-defence: self-defence without being physically attacked first (see Caroline test).
Evidence was provided to the judges through written witness statements extracted from interviews, and live questioning of witnesses, often over video call.
The principle of maximum disclosure provides for a broad definition of "public bodies" which are subject to the duty of releasing information.
Article 56 requires States to take joint and separate actions in cooperation with the UN to achieve their mutual aims.
States should cooperate with each other in ensuring development and eliminating obstacles to development.
Hirabayashi (1925) — Washington's Supreme Court decided that the land purchased in the name of a Nisei but managed primarily by an Issei-owned company must revert to the state.
Some other research has shown that during the movement, in the Vidarbha region, 14 percent of the land records are incomplete, thus prohibiting transfer to the poor.
Local residents criticized authorities for leaving Brown's body in the street for four hours in an action seen as demeaning and disrespectful.
Within the framework of the Charter of the United Nations, affirmation of Algerian sympathy towards all nations which would support the liberating action.
105) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (as it then was), authorizing the transfer of Rupert's Land from the control of the Hudson's Bay Company to the Dominion of Canada.
In 2000 the UN established the Global Compact which call on business leaders "embrace and enact' a set of 10 principles relating to human rights, labour rights, environmental protections and corruption.
A possible method of limiting a product's durability is to use inferior materials in critical areas, or suboptimal component layouts which cause excessive wear.
The OECD Guidelines cover a wide range of issues including labour and environmental standards, human rights, corruption, consumer protection, technology amongst others.
Fairphone has also received three consecutive annual Platinum ratings from EcoVadis, scoring as high as 88/100 in a rating system that covers four different categories measuring environmental and social metrics.
The witnesses included victims, family members of victims, and defected members of the regime, including the police force, the Basij and IRGC.
This often meant that tensions escalated because the international community did not fully understand the issues at play.
The Basic Principles for the Treatment of Prisoners were adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations by resolution 45/111 on 14 December 1990.
See also Mental Capacity Act 2005 Capacity in Scots law Notes References Sources Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000: A Short Guide to the Act (PDF), The Scottish Government, 1 April 2008, retrieved 29 December 2010
Legal defense for self-defense claim Son assault demesne ("his own first assault") is a form of a plea to justify an assault and battery, by which the defendant asserts that the plaintiff committed an assault upon him, and the defendant merely defended himself.
The Act was adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Government in October 2000, and the Republika Srpska Government in May 2001.
In 2005, the Information Commissioner Act established the institution of the Information Commissioner, an autonomous and independent body in charge of supervising the protection of personal data and the access to public information.
These measures differ from country to country: in Italy they are called preventive measures, which are derived from a comprehensive analysis that involves both the tendency to commit crimes and the sphere of the moral conduct of an individual.
Though no longer used to this extent, ringed seals are still an important food and clothing source for the people of Nunavut.
The animated film Free Birds centers around a turkey who was pardoned, then is recruited to go back in time to the first Thanksgiving to prevent turkeys from being associated with the holiday.
While humanitarianism on a local and national level can be traced far back in history, scholars of international politics tend to identify the advent of global humanitarian impulses to the 19th century.
Assessments * indicates "Civil liberties in country or territory" or "Human rights in country or territory" links.
Opponents Opponents of the initiative argue that it would result in cyber security risk and possibly make vehicle data more vulnerable.
The right to a healthy environment is at the core of the international approach to human rights and climate change.
At any level, student bills of rights can provide students with an understanding of their legal rights: rights pertinent to all citizens and rights specifically pertinent to students in the educational setting.
The Ukrainian government was unwilling to implement the majority of his recommendations, even though it was consistently willing to engage with the HCNM.
The High Court also inferred a limited right to vote from the text of the Constitution in Roach v Electoral Commissioner, invalidating legislation that prevented all prisoners from voting.
Nevertheless, researchers from a wide range of disciplines have continuously identified issues with how officials determine if they believe what a person claiming asylum tell about their past experiences, their identity, and relationships.
Despite the rules, organizations and demonstrators at the conference's physical site were happy to mention specific ongoing abuses all around the world, with many displaying atrocity photographs in an attempt to out-do each other.
In a case in 1989 in Illinois, a 17-year-old female Jehovah's Witness was permitted to refuse necessary life saving treatments.
Their 2024 study directly addresses animal abuse and applies the concept of "phantom pain" (drawing on Blumenberg) to understand the persistence of animal suffering within cultural traditions.
Scholars have reported how far-right critics argue that neo-Nazis joining the national-anarchist movement will lead to them losing credit for the successes of their anti-Zionist struggle if it is co-opted by anarchists.
The Nyamilu Community Water Project The Nyamilu Community Water Project began in 2005 as an Engineers Without Borders project led by both Dartmouth College and Louisiana State University.
In the months leading up to the incident, several other dogs had been killed and a tractor and horse stolen.
It is physically impossible for the human eye to focus simultaneously on the rear sight (nearest to one's eye), the front sight (farther away from one's eye), and the relatively distant target at the same time.
In 2012, the rape case of 23 year old girl sparked national and international attention to India's laws against sexual assault.
In June 2012, the Senate, led by Senator Ben Cardin, incorporated the measure into a broader bill (H.R.
(2001) National Human Rights Institutions, Articles and working papers, Input to the discussions of the establishment and development of the functions of national human rights institutions Danish Institute for Human Rights.
In earlier times before the development of national policing, an attack on the family home was effectively either an assault on the people actually inside or an indirect assault on their welfare by depriving them of shelter and/or the means of production.
Earlier mobile phones (including water-resistant ones) had back covers that could be opened by the user in order to replace the battery.
Pattanaik and Yongsheng Xu presented three conditions that a measurement of FoC should satisfy: Indifference between no-choice situations.
These initiatives contributed to the establishment in 2021 of the interdisciplinary master's program Ethology and Human–Animal Interaction, the first degree program in Romania dedicated to the field.
In the 2017 Chomutov incident, a 37-year-old man believed that a vehicular rampage is taking place in front of his home and in an effort to stop it, he shot the 34 year old driver dead.
Moreover, with the majority of those classified as agriculturists being Muslim, the educated elite saw it as being anti-Hindu, just as their diminishing ability to gain government employment, which was once their preserve, was considered to be such.
False imprisonment refers to a situation where someone is held by a government authority without legal justification, often in a government controlled setting like a police station or prison.
Gaughan states that, commonly, those who seek debarking live in apartments, or have neighbors who complain.
They have tried earnestly to meet all objections in advance and have done exceedingly well." A 1998 study by Philip Cook and Jens Ludwig replicated the Kleck and Gertz survey, but also concluded that the results of these surveys were far too high.
An early framework for the establishment of public slaughterhouses was put in place in Paris in 1810, under the reign of the Emperor Napoleon.
Other human rights frameworks, such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child refer to environmental issues as they relate to the framework's focus, in this case children's rights.
The genocidal terror campaign perpetrated by (ISIL) known as Daesh, has had a particular impact on regions with large minority populations, resulting in communities, many thousands being killed or held captive, including women and children held in sexual slavery.
A recommendation that was often raised during the regional forums and other activities, that the human rights of minorities be highlighted more frequently and that a more detailed approach be considered in their recognition and protection within the United Nations system.
It is about controlling what outsiders do once in a society: whether they work, reside, study, set up businesses, or share their lives with others.
Such conferences were seen as a way to promote global participation, consultation, and policy formation, and were seen as a likely significant new way to influence the direction of international society.
…Mere replacement of individual unpatented parts, one at a time, whether of the same part repeatedly or different parts successively, is no more than the lawful right of the owner to repair his property.
This has ensured an almost lifelong loyalty from the farmers and the communists were in power till 2011 assembly election.
In 2000, most Internet access to homes was provided using dial-up, while many businesses and schools were using broadband connections.
The court went further in saying that no statutory law could require a duty to retreat, because the right to stand one's ground is "founded on the law of nature; and is not, nor can it be, superseded by any law of society." == References ==
It is also cheaper to become a recortador than a traditional bullfighter, although prizes are also lower.
The feminine is not an absolute alterity (the alterity established by Jacques Lacan and Emmanuel Levinas) and we are offered a language to rethink the archaic mother and the source of humanized life.
Personhood In 1992, Switzerland amended its constitution to recognize animals as beings and not things.
The declaration reiterated many of the suggestions set forth by the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism.
Programs that employ the WSR model, such as the Fair Food Program (FFP) or the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh, provide low-wage workers a means for claiming, defining, and enforcing their human rights in the workplace.
As previously quoted, Bollen criticized previous studies of Freedom in the World as anecdotal and inconclusive; they raised issues needing further study by scientific methods rather than anecdotes.
See also National Public Order Intelligence Unit Notes Further reading NETCU website archived at the Internet Archive Glover, Julian; Adam, David; and Ward, David.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and introduction to rights: Rights – normative principles, variously construed as legal, social, or moral freedoms or entitlements.
Pavlov quickly abandoned attempts to infer canine mental processes; such attempts, he said, led only to disagreement and confusion.
Public institutions are obliged to report annually to Parliament, the President and the Prime Minister on their compliance with access to information law and provide updated statistics and data.
It particularly relates to offering assistance to others in an emergency or crisis and is also used to refer to the skills, knowledge and attitudes needed for individuals and communities to help themselves.
The Special Rapporteur puts forward recommendations aimed at addressing the negative consequences of plastics on human rights.
Thus, the farmer receives income not only by the selling of the milk, but also by the selling of the carcass.
Unwritten rules, also called unspoken rules, are behavioral constraints imposed in organizations or societies that are not typically voiced or written down.
Sometimes, the use and handling of a single weapon is considered a martial art, for example Japanese martial arts such as kenjutsu, kendo (sword), bojutsu (staff), and kyūdō (archery).
According to scholars, the most willingness to exploit non-human animals is found in people who express greater ethnic prejudice.
The colours in the logo are not those of the rainbow or LGBT pride flag; instead, they symbolise "race and heritage (red/black/green) and all gender identities and sexual orientations (pink/yellow/blue)".
Annual Reports The Special Rapporteur's annual reports normally include a focus on relevance for the rights of minorities, as well as a description of the activities carried out during the year in the framework of the mandate.
Hearing a child in investigations and proceedings Child victims of crime have a right to be protected from harm and secondary victimisation during investigations and proceedings.
Background It is unclear when the tradition of throwing a goat from the belfry of the Church of Saint Vincent Martyr in the town of Manganeses de la Polvorosa began.
Harvard Business Review considers it good business practice to bring unwritten rules to the surface and document them.
In 1976 Jeff Cooper founded the American Pistol Institute (API) at Gunsite Ranch just north of Paulden in Yavapai County, Arizona, to provide training in the technique to a larger audience of military personnel, law enforcement officers and citizens.
Analysis Suicide food is similar to the "absent referent" described by the American essayist Carol J.
The Schiavo case is the most recent and significant right to die case that propagates the thought of having an advance directive or living will.
Adams, which in this context represents desire to break the link between the living animal and the consumer product in order to avoid making the consumer feeling guilty for consuming their product.
History In 1979, the proposed Health Research Modernization Act established a National Center for Alternative Research.
Injury or death Within a pen, if another bird is injured or dead, the sight of this can encourage other pen members to engage in cannibalistic behaviours.
A Peruvian subsidiary of Japan's Taiyo Fisheries, known as Victoria del Mar, operated three coastal whaling ships (Victoria 1, 2, and 7) with a shore station in Paita.
Although it is not required by federal law, state law and employer policies may also protect employees from harassment or discrimination based on marital status.
Early members of environmental organizations began protesting whale hunts around the world in the 20th century.
Aging and ageism Upholding and protecting the rights of older adults is vital to addressing problems related to ageing and ageism.
The principle asserts both the legitimacy of the aspiration to a United Ireland and the legitimacy of the wish of the majority of the people of Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom.
In the UK, the University of Exeter runs an MA in Anthrozoology which explores human–animal interactions from anthropological (cross-cultural) perspectives.
See also Reparations for slavery Holocaust reparations Restorative justice References Further reading Carranza, R.
The hakapik may only be used by certified seal-catchers (fangstmenn) operating in the pack ice of the Arctic Ocean and not by coastal seal hunters.
The rights are binding as such and judges can apply the international law as if it were national law.
The European Convention on Human Rights has since 1950 defined and guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe.
His conditions included abiding by a curfew, living with his parents, and having a sister and cousin post a $100,000 bond.
Sacrifice of a lamb, or less commonly a rooster, is a common practice in Armenian Church, and the Tewahedo Church of Ethiopia and Eritrea.
Thus an RS 2477 "highway" which qualifies as a "road" could disqualify the land it traverses from being recognized by the federal government as a "wilderness" if it reduced the area under consideration beneath the 5,000 acre limit.
The "victim" or "victims" of racism and slavery (the two words occurring 90 times in the document) are defined in only the most general geographic terms.
However, they questioned whether this estimate was credible because the same survey suggests that approximately 132,000 perpetrators were either wounded or killed at the hands of armed civilians in 1994.
Design The water in the pools has to be constantly filtered to keep it clean for the dolphins and the temperature and composition of the water has to be controlled to match the conditions dolphins experience in the wild.
The warrant was later denounced as "cynical" by the Israeli foreign ministry, while Livni's office said she was "proud of all her decisions in Operation Cast Lead".
This interference can prevent users from using the most effective means to protect their anonymity online.
Debate in the House of Commons On 4 July 2018, the House of Commons debated the Claim of Right in an Opposition Day debate selected by the SNP, which had previously opposed the document.
Overview A person's liberty right to x consists in his freedom to do or have x, while a person's claim right to x consists in an obligation on others to allow or enable him to do or have x.
On 4 February 2019, at the Founder's Memorial in Abu Dhabi, the Document on Human Fraternity for World Peace and Living Together was co-signed by Pope Francis and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar, Ahmad al-Tayyeb.
Kyokushin karate requires advanced practitioners to engage in bare-knuckled, full-contact sparring allowing kicks, knees and punching although punching to the head is disallowed while wearing only a karate gi, mouthguard, groin guard for males, or chest guard worn under the karate gi for females.
The doctrine also asserts the right of self-determination for the people of both jurisdictions in Ireland, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, without external interference, and only with the consensus of a majority of people in both polities.
See also Banjar, Jungle, Abadi, Shamlat, Gair Mumkin Barani, Nahri, Chahi, Taal Bigha Doab Khadir and Bangar Khasra Measurement of land in Punjab Patwari Shajra Zaildar Village accountant == References ==
This was a non-binding debate and did not create any legal recognition of the Claim of Right or have any legal significance.
A rule that says that states should guarantee freedom of expression to its citizens is self-executing.
This moment was captured by Reuters photographer Francis Kokoroko and has since gained a lot of attention on social media.
18 February: Orders the removal of black kite and crow nests, excluding Edo townspeople districts (extended to those districts from February Genroku 6).
Organizations Privacy campaigners argue that instead of "wasting resources gathering and sifting through the volume of data being accumulated through mass surveillance", resources would be better allocated in providing more personnel for targeted surveillance.
On the contrary, in an interview with Paris Match, philosopher Mark Hunyadi, who signed the text, announced that despite an agreement on the aim of the text, he rejected the idea that animals could have interests that could make them legal subjects.
The first-place winner receives $5,000, the second-place winner $2,500, the third-place winner $1,500, and two honorable mentions receive $500 each.
Insofar as an attack on property is a crime, reasonable force may be used to prevent the crime or to arrest the offender, whether it be theft of a sum of money or the damage of an object.
This list encompasses Americans imprisoned or wrongfully detained abroad by state and non-state actors and includes both citizens of the United States and legal permanent residents.
According to the company, increasing the lifespan of a phone by two years reduces CO2 emissions by 30%.
Views include human rights as an integral part of democracy, human rights requiring democracy, and mutual support between both concepts.
The Commissioner is independent and the principal aim of their office is to safeguard and promote the interests of older people.
Their interpretation of the statute has brought them into conflict with wilderness advocates, the federal government and private landowners.
In this particular case public officials have to apply the so-called "public interest test", meaning that they have to scrutinize and ponder both the exceptions for not releasing information and the reasons of public interest in knowing the information required.
The relevant laws regulating the right to access public information in the Northern part of Cyprus are: the Right to Access Information Law No.
This is a recipe for warlordism, a chaotic society where anyone with enough physical force can make the rules".
Cultural stigma of sexual violence in India Women in India are less likely to report incidences of sexual violence and assault due to greater acceptance of rape myths, which are a set of beliefs suggesting that victims are at fault.
The Court ruled that using deadly force on intruders in an unoccupied property was not reasonable or justified and therefore not a defense to the tort of battery.
If the goat survived it was revered and paraded through the small village, becoming a local legend for years to come.
The villagers used ropes to lower the goat, but in 1993 they went back to dropping the goat from the church.
Background "NETCU provides tactical advice and guidance on policing single-issue domestic extremism.
That same year the United States also enacted the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act which established the National Marine Sanctuaries program.
BBC journalists Thomas Naadi and his cameraman were also arrested in a crackdown but were later released.
Instead, the Second World War began and the children remained in Britain for the remainder of the war and, in most cases, as British citizens thereafter.
According to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Utah require publicly funded shelters to surrender animals to any Class B dealer who asks for them.
The goal is to protect it long-term given its appeal for energy producers like Hydro-Quebec and Innergex Renewable Energy.
They developed a bear spray formula with a spray range of over 30 feet (9.1 meters) and a spray time of over 7 seconds.
This can be seen if a primary cannibal is a higher ranked bird in the flock, it could influence more secondary cannibals and spread this behaviour more rapidly.
The idea of an institutionalized regional human rights framework is ongoing, with an objective to establish an ombudsman and security structures that goes beyond the Pacific Islands Forum.[1] See also National human rights institutions == References ==
Countries involved The United States imports around one third of all NHPs sold internationally, with the United Kingdom importing the second highest number.
In India in the late 19th-century, the berries from Withania coagulans were used as a vegetarian rennet and sold in powdered capsules.
186, 199 (1876), is a criminal case in which the court rejected the duty to retreat when using deadly force in self-defense.
US Supreme Court Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone remarked that his colleague Justice Jackson acting as Nuremberg Chief prosecutor was "conducting his high-grade lynching party in Nuremberg.
As of 2023, devocalization is illegal in Maryland, Massachusetts, and New Jersey (unless medically necessary).
Economic simulations show that migration lowers the real wage for both countries receiving and sending immigrants; however, the effect of this decrease is based on the goods and services consumed by an individual.
Under the new law the Commissioner has the faculty to use disciplinary sanctions against those violating the requirements established in the law.
The conclusions called for "the establishment of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience" and supported the proclamation of the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism.
Horns are removed because they can pose a risk to humans, other animals and to the bearers of the horns themselves (horns are sometimes caught in fences or prevent feeding).
She was described as the only person who could help the "dangerous" refugee cases: "Czech democrats, political leaders, Jews, Catholics and Socialists." She resisted orders by the BCRC in London to leave Czechoslovakia.
The principle of transparency in all areas of public life, including media, is expected to be enhanced given that there is an Action Plan Promoting Open Government since 2014 (Greek Action Plan 2014-16).
Family separation is the condition where family members are involuntarily separated from each other, often because of immigration systems, although it can happen for other reasons such as military service or involuntary adoption.
This included the implications of trends like illicit traffic and release of toxic and dangerous products during military activities, war and conflict, shipbreaking.
Punishment "should not be imposed, nor the term of punishment extended, by virtue of a prediction of dangerousness, beyond that which would be justified as a deserved punishment independently of that prediction".
The commission investigated disappearances, political executions, and torture, publishing the Rettig Report with its findings in 1991.
This is to avoid karmic consequences and show respect for living things, because all living beings are equally valued in these traditions, a vegetarian diet rooted in ahimsa is only one aspect of environmentally conscious living, relating to those beings affected by our need for food.
A Khasra Girdawari (Hindustani: ख़सरा or خسره گرداوری) is a legal Revenue Department document used in India and Pakistan that specifies land and crop details.
These include the distinction between civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights, between which the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are often divided.
The point of view of the press, however, is that the general public has a right to know personal information about those with status as a public figure.
Slaughter-free milk is a consumable milk produced from any mammal, normally cows, wherein the farmer later on does not slaughter the animal for meat production.
Separationist thesis Some writers view human rights and democracy as separate things that may not go together.
They illustrated this with the example of the option set "to travel by train" or "to travel by car", that should yield more FoC than the option set "to travel by red car" or "to travel by blue car".
However, some cases become rather notable, such as: 1991 defensive killing of a Nazi skinhead by a famous sculptor Pavel Opočenský, who attempted to help a couple that had been attacked on the street of Prague.
Historical context When the Movement for the Triumph of Democratic Liberties (MTLD) organized its congress in April 1953, the independence option was decided, but the date for the hasty announcement of the insurrection had not yet been set.
The European Court of Human Rights is the only international court with jurisdiction to deal with cases brought by individuals (rather than states).
Farming also implies individual or corporate ownership of the stock being cultivated." In practice, it can take place in the sea or in freshwater, and be extensive or intensive.
Animals regarded as commodities may be bought, sold, given away, bequeathed, killed, and used as commodity producers: producers of meat, eggs, milk, fur, wool, skin and offspring, among other things.
Torture The United Nations Human Rights Committee has stated that in cases of torture, the right to an effective remedy requires states to investigate allegations of torture, prosecute perpetrators, provide compensation to victims, and prevent similar violations from occurring again.
However, it was in 2022 that the denunciation of suicide food first gained momentum, in line with the general public's concerns about the impact of meat and dairy consumption on climate change.
A report of the New Zealand Law Commission examines not only violence by men against women, but also violence by women against men and in same-sex relationships.
Commission for the Control of Interpol's Files The Commission for the Control of Interpol's Files (CCF) is an independent monitoring body.
The landlord of Vágbeszterce (Považská Bystrica) has adopted the document and inhabitants of Bystrica have committed to keep these rules precisely.
2011), is a legal case involving limitations on the right of self-defense and stand-your-ground laws.
National Student Association In 1947, the National Student Association (NSA) in the United States adopted a student bill of rights.
The DPT plan allowed the construction of high-density buildings such as high-rise commercial buildings and condominiums.
Marula oil is considered a delicacy by local people, and is added to many traditional and modern recipes.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
Michel thought it would be a good way for young chefs to gain experience in French restaurants, which were not open to employing British chefs at the time.
The food was cooked in large conical or rounded pots with tapered or pointy bottoms that sat well in the soil and ash of the bonfire or hearth.
The siru is an earthenware steaming vessel that dates back to the late bronze age of the Korean northern peninsula and the use of the utensil spread to the entire peninsula by the time of the Three Kingdoms in which the popularity of siru-tteok grew.
DACA offers an International Culinary Arts Diploma accredited by World Association of Chefs Societies, the Verband der Köche Deutschlands e.V.
An accordion cut is a technique in butchery, similar to butterflying, in which a thick piece of meat is extended into a thin one with a larger surface area.
On 5 September 2007, Emeritus Archbishop Desmond Tutu was appointed patron of National Braai Day (now called Braai4Heritage).
Escoffier "elevated the role of cooks from that of laborers to artists"; when he died, he "left the world a new art, that of dining".
The painting came from Kirchner's estate and today belongs to the collection of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid.
Unlike other dry heat methods, dry roasting is used with foods such as nuts and seeds, in addition to some eaten insects such as house crickets.
Porous bags Some dry products, typically grains, are sold in perforated plastic bags and designed for convenient cooking directly in the enclosure.
In the Sinai Peninsula as well as part of the Levant, samneh is traditionally prepared using a leather bag.
Types Bowl- or cone-shaped – the usual colander Mated colander pot – a colander inside a cooking pot, allowing the food to drain as it is lifted out See also Chinois Zaru References External links Colander vs Strainer
Documented evidence of a commitment to raw food was by the Ethiopian monk Qozmos, who in the late 1300s CE committed to the ascetic discipline of eating only uncooked food.
The food is dipped in melted butter and then sprinkled with a mixture of herbs and spices, usually some combination of thyme, oregano, chili pepper, peppercorns, salt, garlic powder, and onion powder.
"He stands alone." See also The Blind Assassin (2000) by Atwood: "...the twelve course dinners that went along with it: celery and salted nuts first, chocolates at the end.
The head of the central shaft is frequently modified to form a bottle opener, or foil cutter, increasing the utility of the device.
Designed for convenience, the hexamine stove folds into a compact size for easy storage and transport.
Similar dishes Corn pudding is not to be confused with hasty pudding, which is typically made from ground corn, rather than whole-kernel corn.
White mustard (Brassica hirta) does not yield allyl isothiocyanate, but the milder 4-Hydroxybenzyl isothiocyanate degraded from sinalbin rather than sinigrin.
They are also used to make jellies and cook vegetables in the tradition of a normal steamer or blanching for freezer storage.
This soup is cooked and eaten hot, and more bread is used than in gazpacho, so it absorbs much of the water and tomato juices.
This should be done with the blade held at an angle to the steel, usually about 20°, and repeating on the opposite side at the same angle.
Generally, meat that is high in fat content, such as duck, has no need of being covered during roasting.
A single cup within a regular muffin tin is 100 millilitres (3.5 US fl oz) and most often has room for 12 muffins, although tins holding 6, 8, 11, 24, and 35 muffins do exist.
In Medieval France, the ones in Paris were known for their special privilege of being able to speak frankly to the King himself, when he ventured into the marketplace, and voice criticism without fear of punishment.
Some additives and preservatives used may include carrageenan, citric acid, monosodium glutamate, sodium citrate, sorbic acid, and xanthan gum, among others.
Over time, gridirons have been developed specifically to accommodate the type of food being prepared and the cooking method being used.
Bernardin's design is a one-handed table-mounted opener such as for bartenders; Painter's patent, received February 6, 1894, is a hand-held design - otherwise both essentially worked the same for the same purpose.
The key, then, is to kill the bacteria by heating the mixture to 52–63 °C (126–145 °F) at the moment the cheese is at the isoelectric point, meaning the state at which half the ionizable surface amino acids of the proteins are positively charged and half are negative.
A keeping room is a room or informal living space adjacent to a kitchen where family and guests can gather while meals are being prepared.
A Remoska (also known as Prodiż) is a small portable electric oven with the cooking element housed in the lid of a pot.
See also Rice cooker, a kitchen appliance that automates the cooking of rice, and may maintain rice hot, ready to eat Rice huller, a machine that removes the chaff or outer fibrous hull from grains of rice Rice preparation, processing of rice == References ==
Other products where drum drying can be used are, for example, starches, breakfast cereals, baby food, and instant mashed potatoes to make them cold-water-soluble.
This process raises the susceptor patch temperature to levels where it may then heat food by conduction or by infrared radiation.
The product has also been praised for its environmental sustainability due to its refillable nature.
Starbucks Corporation, for example, was targeted in 2008 for wasting over 6 million US gallons (23,000 m3) of water daily through use of dipper wells.
In 1992, she established her own gourmet baking business, selling to several New York City eateries including Dean & DeLuca, Felissimo and Petrossian.
Culinary Arts 1 Kitchen Job / Workplace Kitchen Food Fundamentals/Simple meal preparation Preparation of egg cookery Preparation of salad, vegetables, mushrooms etc.
Usually, a small amount of low CO2-producing citrate-fermenting lactococci or leuconostoc bacterial strains are added to the starter mix for the production of diacetyl for added buttery or creamy flavours.
The Japanese term tenmoku is derived from the name of the Tianmu Mountain, where Japanese priests acquired these tea bowls from Chinese temples to bring back to Japan, according to tradition.
Use Honing steels are used by lightly placing the near edge of the blade against the base of the steel, then sliding the blade away from oneself along the steel while moving it down – the blade moves diagonally, while the steel remains stationary.
Traiteur is an agent noun formed from the verb traiter ('treat'), which literally refers to the action of "treating" someone to something (for instance, a meal).
Afterwards, the butter is then strained until one is left with a clear batch of melted butter (smen).
Since the summer of 2016, the coffee maker is on permanent loan to the Heinz Nixdorf MuseumsForum in Paderborn.
A steel wire gridiron was developed and patented as early as 1889 in New Haven, Connecticut, by William C.
The handheld reamer, which is held in one hand while the lemon or lime is held in the other, is a relatively new adaptation of the traditional glass or plastic citrus reamer (with a juice rim) that was placed on a table and pressed downward.
Similar utensils Other examples of serving slices include those for serving cakes, pies, and other desserts; the pudding trowel or pudding trowle is a predecessor of the fish slice.
The electrical field strength and the residence time are the key process parameters which affect heat generation.
See also Braising Frying Sautéing Notes References External links How to Sweat Ingredients on YouTube Definition Archived 2015-04-17 at the Wayback Machine How to Sweat Vegetables
Early years Madison grew up in Davis, California, and earned a bachelor's degree with high honors in sociology/city planning in 1968 from Cowell College at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
If the surfactants are at equal concentrations at the interface, proteins are generally less effective than small surfactants, such as lecithin or monoglycerides, at decreasing the interfacial tension.
Nacha tries the cake batter, and suddenly is overcome with grief at the memory of her lost love, and is too ill to attend the wedding.
In Melvyn Bragg's memoir Back in the Day, he recalls his grandfather in the pub with "a gill of bitter" in front of him.
Soda jerking was dominated by popular young men with loud personalities and good people skills because of the fashionable environment and "cool" association.
Edible products Edible rendering processes are basically meat processing operations and produce lard or edible tallow for use in food products.
In northern England, a quarter pint could also be called a jack or a noggin, rather than a gill, and in some areas a half-pint could be called a gill, particularly for beer and milk.
Culinary students work in the kitchen and in the front of the house as wait staff, while the pastry students make bread and pastries for the restaurant and bakeshop.
Some advantages of drum drying include the ability to dry viscous foods which cannot be easily dried with other methods.
Dried fish most commonly cod or haddock, known as Harðfiskur, is a delicacy in Iceland, while dried reindeer meat is a traditional Sámi food.
According to University of Hong Kong researcher Xiaomeng Liu and Chinese media, the earliest form of popcorn cannon was invented by American botanist Alexander P.
A traiteur (; French: [tʁɛ.tœʁ]) is a French food-seller, whose places of business were arguably the precursors of the modern restaurant.
The unifying element throughout the musical is the use of traditional Korean samul nori music, which in this case is performed with improvised instruments, such as cutting boards, water canisters and kitchen knives.
Fruitarianism may be adopted for different reasons, including ethical, religious, environmental, cultural, economic, and presumed health benefits.
The advantage of the method is that the meat does not come into contact with the cooking liquid; in Poularde de Bresse en vessie, the juices from the chicken all stay in the chicken, and turn into a flavorful jelly if the dish is served cold.
Rather than rolling out the dough and pressing the cutter into the top of the dough, the cutting sheet is placed on the baking sheet, cutting side up.
The market of Japanese ingredients is also growing, with brands such as Ajinomoto, Kikkoman, Nissin and Kewpie mayonnaise, are establishing production base in other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia.
Splatter guards are generally circular, so as to fit the shape of a frying pan, and have a handle for ease of removal and safety.
Cookie cutters can also be used for shaping, molding, forming and cutting numerous other types of foods, including meat patties, pancakes, sandwiches and decorative embellishments for platters (for example, fancy-cut fruit).
In Ancient Greek pottery, small bowls, including phiales and pateras, and bowl-shaped cups called kylices were used.
Many foods can now be pureed more easily in a food processor; however, a manual method such as ricing is best for potatoes, which are starchy and become glutinous (in the sense of being glue-like or sticky, and not in the sense of containing gluten) when over-processed.
Early 2010 the DACA curriculum was approved and the Dumaguete Academy for Culinary Arts started the first Batch for the Culinary Arts Diploma on May 3, 2010.
Mustard oil refers to either the pressed oil of the mustard plant used for cooking or its pungent essential (or volatile) oil.
It is filled through a wider opening at the opposite end, rolled or twisted closed, and then squeezed to extrude its contents.
'fast-day capon'), a seafood salad Humor and ethnic dysphemism Humorous exaltation often takes the form of a dysphemism disparaging particular groups or places.
Boilers in power plants are traditionally heated by the combustion of coal, but if cofiring were to be implemented, then the CO2 emissions would decrease while still maintaining the heat inputted to the boiler.
Within health care, the chef is often responsible for the development of variations on mainstream meals, to fit different types of diets while still having an appetizing meal.
Though the Bocuse d'Or of France is frequently referred to as the culinary equivalent of the Olympic Games, it is biennial and not separated by an olympiad, i.e.
The bread is at the center of the Christian Eucharist; it is "sacramental bread", "singing bread", or "angel's bread".
⁠1/2⁠ UK salt spoon is an amount of space that can accommodate 15 British imperial minims (⁠1/4⁠ British imperial fluid drachm or ⁠1/32⁠ British imperial fluid ounce; about 14·41 US customary minims (0·24 US customary fluid dram or 0·03 US customary fluid ounce) or 0·89 millilitres) of liquid.
To become a global cuisine, a local, regional, or national cuisine must spread internationally and be commonly served around the world.
Sautéing, stir-frying, pan frying, shallow frying, and deep frying are all standard frying techniques.
Microgreens are vegetable greens (not to be confused with sprouts or shoots) harvested just after the cotyledon leaves have developed with one set of true leaves.
The method essentially combines pressure cooking with deep frying to pressure fry chicken that has been marinated and breaded.
This storage vessel is typologically similar to the Haltern cooking pot but differs in rim design from the classic Haltern 91.
The Asian Pastry Cup (APC) is an international pastry competition taking place every two years in Singapore.
Membership is open to women who have distinguished themselves in the respective fields with which Les Dames is concerned.
Alternating current When current varies, as it does in AC circuits, P ( t ) = U ( t ) I ( t ) {\displaystyle P(t)=U(t)I(t)} where t is time and P is the instantaneous active power being converted from electrical energy to heat.
In November 2022, Wendy's released the new peppermint Frosty for the holidays; this was the third new Frosty flavor released and temporarily replaced the vanilla Frosty.
One way is a combination of lemon juice and kosher salt, and another is a solution of 1:3 distilled white vinegar and water.
Keygoes was initially launched through Indiegogo campaign and quickly garnered attention for its unique use and design.
Even if the bacteria are killed they release heat-resistant spores that if they start to multiply become a threat.
The pronouncement referred to the differing opinion of Rabbi Moshe Heinemann (although without explicitly mentioning Rabbi Heinemann by name) as a minority opinion (Da'as Yachid) that should not be relied upon.
Now most recipes, for health reasons, call for lighter oils, even though none of the oils penetrate the turkey because of the heat.
Vegetarian cookery and advocacy After Pope and her family became vegetarian, she served as cookery teacher to the Vegetarian Society.
Here the chef is typically responsible for designing dishes and ensuring that the local kitchen staff can create/prepare them to an exact standard.
The reservoir is vacuum insulated so that the water in the reservoir, once brought up to temperature, remains at 110°C.
"Welsh" was probably used as a pejorative dysphemism, meaning "anything substandard or vulgar", and suggesting that "only people as poor and stupid as the Welsh would eat cheese and call it rabbit", or that "the closest thing to rabbit the Welsh could afford was melted cheese on toast".
Julia is an American comedy drama television series created by Daniel Goldfarb that premiered on HBO Max on March 31, 2022.
Hexamine is an efficient and stable fuel, making it ideal for portable stoves due to its high energy density and ease of ignition.
In February of 2024, the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas approved the restructuring plan.
A previous effort to fabricate the optic from fused quartz had failed, with the cast blank having voids.
He worked with the design firm Smart Design to create the initial products in the line, including the Swivel Peeler, and Oxo continued to collaborate with Smart for many years.
Additional ingredients can include half and half, beer, bread crumbs, butter, eggs, onion, onion juice, garlic, vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, carrot and celery, spices and seasonings.
High-end ovens sometimes offer optional pizza stones that are specifically designed for each oven model and may include a specialized heating element.
Simmering – foods are cooked in hot liquids kept at or just below the boiling point of water, but higher than poaching temperature.
Although the terms "cupbearer" and "butler" are sometimes used interchangeably, they were two distinct roles at the coronation feast.
Storage and quality One of the main challenges of once-a-month cooking is maintaining food texture and flavor over several weeks of storage.
In general, it works best for cooking whole chickens, turkey, and leaner cuts of lamb, pork, and beef.
Chemical composition Marula oil contains a large proportion of monounsaturated fatty acids which make the oil very stable.
Many restaurants serve chile con queso with such added ingredients as pico de gallo, black beans, guacamole, and ground beef or pork.
CREA also offers online courses on culinary techniques such as the sous-vide method, mixology, butchery, food safety, and food quality.
Charles Darwin commented on this phenomenon in The Voyage of the Beagle: "Having crossed the Peuquenes (Piuquenes), we descended into a mountainous country, intermediate between the two main ranges, and then took up our quarters for the night.
Poland and Lithuania The cupbearer (Polish: cześnik, Lithuanian: taurininkas) was a court office in Poland and Lithuania until the end of the 13th century.
Many Chinese traditional regional cuisines rely on basic methods of food preservation such as drying, salting, pickling and fermentation.
Some claim that because the flame is above the food, and since hot gases rise, it cannot significantly affect the flavor.
As with many other dishes covered in light-colored sauce, a sprinkle of paprika or cayenne is often added as decoration.
Description The genus Camellia includes several commercially important species - Camellia oleifera is grown mainly in China for vegetable oil.
This method of cooking is important in areas where water supplies are limited or where public water is not yet available.
A hot plate or hotplate is a heated flat surface on a stove or electric cooker on which food may be cooked, either built into an electric cooker or kitchen stove, or portable, plugged into an electric outlet.
A dishcloth or dishrag, also known as tea towel, tea cloth (British English) or dishtowel (American English), is used in the kitchen to clean or dry dishes and surfaces.
Culinary names, menu names, or kitchen names are names of foods used in the preparation or selling of food, as opposed to their names in agriculture or in scientific nomenclature.
This has two main purposes: droplets of hot oil can cause dangerous burns if they land on the skin, and, if they land elsewhere, can cause stains.
Madison has won five James Beard Foundation Awards, including two for her 1997 cookbook Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone (one in 1998 - James Beard Vegetarian Book Award, and one in 2016 - James Beard Cookbook Hall of Fame).
This process dislodges the seeds and some amount of pith, so the juice must generally be strained before use, although some tabletop reamers include an integrated strainer.
It has two long handles, one with a perforated basket at the end, the other with a flat surface that fits into the basket.
The oscillations of the ions are the origin of the radiation ("thermal energy") that one measures in a typical experiment.
She writes for the Wall Street Journal Off Duty section as a feature food columnist and is the host of the Wall Street Journal Digital Network’s Cooking Confidential with Gail Monaghan.
Syrian and Lebanese in Canada's Arab diaspora prepare and consume hummus along with other dishes like falafel, kibbeh and tabbouleh, even among the third- and fourth-generation offspring of the original immigrants.
Background Chile con queso (also spelled chili con queso) is a part of the 20th century Tex-Mex and Southwestern cuisine.
This line of products was then completely redesigned and brought to a new standard through innovation.
Uses of a food mill include removing the seeds from cooked tomatoes, removing pulp or larger pieces from foods (creating apple jelly or any type of purée), and making mashed potatoes or spätzle.
As of the late seventeenth century, many offered a table d'hôte, a meal offered at a set price with no choice of dishes.
Origin of term The term soda jerk was a pun on soda clerk, the formal job title of the drugstore assistants who operated soda fountains.
Culinary uses Cheese sauce is commonly used as a dip for various foods, such as chips and vegetables.
This live competition pits national teams of pastry chefs against one another, culminating in a display of chocolate and sugar showpieces as well as pastry creations (examples include plated desserts and chocolate cakes).
The Center for Asian Culinary Studies (CACS) is a non-stock, non-profit culinary school located in San Juan, Metro Manila, and in Davao City, Philippines.
In order to establish a fresh beginning in the New Year, families must be organized both within their family unit, in their home, and around their yard.
Pacific and Madagascar Earth oven cooking was very common in the past and continues into the present – particularly for special occasions, since the earth oven process is very labor-intensive.
She has also written for Martha Stewart Living, Bon Appetite, Diversions, Kiplingers, Garden Design, Kitchen Garden, Cooks, Vegetarian Times, Metropolitan Home, East-West Journal, the Los Angeles Times, Home and Garden, and the International Slow Food Journal.
The word's early origins can be seen in the Latin word 'culter' (knife), still retained in the agricultural tool of a coulter.
This specialized tool is more commonly found in professional bakeries than in homes that only do light or occasional baking.
Neri became the Executive chef for the Obicà group restaurant based in the Flatiron District, Manhattan in 2014.
Leaving a lid ajar can create some similar effects and requires less effort, although it can be difficult to establish how open it should be to release a desired amount of steam, and the steam is released unevenly.
Marula oil is used in diets, especially for people of the Inhambane Province in Mozambique, Owamboland in north central Namibia, Northern KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa and the Zvishavane district of Zimbabwe.
Taking pity on him she baked him some cakes into which she had hidden money, but he failed to notice this and sold the cakes for a pittance.
Also, plastic is used for some young children's cutlery that is often thicker and more durable than disposable plastic cutlery, often encountered in the early years of primary schools.
A diffuser, a circular utensil placed between the tagine and the flame, is used to evenly distribute the stove's heat.
In examining bowls found during an archaeological dig in North America, the anthropologist Vincas Steponaitis defines a bowl by its dimensions, writing that a bowl's diameter rarely falls under half its height and that historic bowls can be classified by their edge, or lip, and shape.
post–1998 From 1998, World Kitchen (Later Corelle Brands, then Anchor Hocking) used the Corning soda–lime formulation at their plant in Charleroi, Pennsylvania.
Made from precious metals and porcelain, they resembled a coffee pot with a hole in the top where a molinillo or swizzle stick (molinet) could be inserted and used to froth the drink.
The meat should be allowed to "rest" for a suitable amount of time (depending on the size of the cut) before being served.
The arrangement of dishes in the Livre fort excellent is very similar to that of the menus in the Ménagier de Paris, written 150 years before the Petit traicté.
History According to the fourteenth-century household book, Le Ménagier de Paris, which does not include a recipe for the dessert, darioles were served at weddings.
The hiring of a private chef has been popular for some time but was traditionally reserved for the wealthy and therefore broadly inaccessible to most of the population.
History Günther Sanin's vision of an international culinary academy in the Visayas goes back to the late 1990s when he started to support several Restaurants and Resorts to achieve international kitchen standards.
in 2001, the Pyroceram-based line of CorningWare was reintroduced there in 2008 as CorningWare StoveTop.
'potato trout') in Catalan cuisine, a potato omelette: "if you don't catch a trout, you've got to have something more humble for dinner -- something to pretend is a trout".
Means of compensation include extending cooking times or using a pressure cooker to provide higher pressure inside the cooking vessel and hence higher temperatures.
Various additional ingredients are used in its preparation, and various types and styles of cheese soup exist.
Toasting forks continued to be an important utensil in the early American kitchen of the 1800s, when activity centered around the cooking fireplace.
As of 2016 4,000,000 hectares (9,900,000 acres) of oleifera forest centered on the Yangtze river basin in Hunan, Jiangxi, and Guangxi produces 0.26 million tons of oil.
Corn pudding (also called pudding corn, puddin' corn, hoppy glop, or spoonbread) is a creamy dish prepared from stewed corn, water, any of various thickening agents, and optional additional flavoring or texturing ingredients.
Applicants do not need to have any prior kitchen experience, but a high school diploma and the ability to read, write and speak English is required.
A fish slice is a kitchen utensil with a wide, flat blade with holes in it, used for lifting and turning food while cooking.
It is a common tool in kitchens in the Netherlands and available in many kitchen stores and supermarkets — although this may vary by region.
Reception The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 93% approval rating with an average rating of 8.0/10, based on 44 critic reviews.
A combination hinged gridiron and spider was developed and patented in 1836 by Amasa and George Sizer of Meriden, Connecticut.
Historically, vla (a popular dairy product with the consistency similar to custard or yoghurt) was sold in long glass bottles.
Ron Popeil, inventor of the Ronco "Showtime" rotisserie oven, claimed that 6 rpm is an ideal speed for cooking a variety of food.
Shirley trained as a patternmaker and designed the inverted oversized 'beanbag' containing recycled polystyrene chips in a polyester-cotton fabric bag and lid within a corrugated cardboard box and personally marketed it across Zululand between 1976 and 1980.
The website's critics consensus reads, "Sarah Lancashire inhabits Julia Child with infectious joie de vivre in this appetizing valentine to the iconic chef." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 76 out of 100 based on 20 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
For centuries, much of the European diet depended on dried cod—known as salt cod, bacalhau (with salt), or stockfish (without).
The company is known for producing pressure fryers, licensing "Genuine Broaster Chicken", and operating a branded food program, "Broaster Express".
Some finds with pitched rims indicate that perishable goods were sealed in these vessels, covered with parchment, leather, or similar materials.
Criticism The dipper well has been criticized in the United States as wasteful since on average it pumps 30 to 60 US gallons (110 to 230 L) of water an hour and is normally left running continuously.
The time taken for the center of food to reach the target temperature depends on the initial temperature, the thickness and shape of the food, and the temperature of the bath.
In Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island, there are uses of the measure gill, with Israel Hands drinking a gill of brandy in the chapter "I Strike the Jolly Roger".
Other common uses include mashing pumpkins and rutabagas for soup, making hummus, guacamole, baking mix, egg salad, or even purées (depending on the fineness of the ridges).
After research by Kim Deok-su, a member of the samul nori band, Nanta premiered in October 1997 in Hoam Art Hall in Seoul.
Some inedible rendering is done using a wet process, which is generally a continuous process similar in some ways to that used for edible materials.
The blending of fat into flour at this stage impacts the amount of water that will be needed to bind the pastry into a dough.
Oil analysis of cultivated varieties showed : ~76-82% oleic acid; 5-11% linoleic acid; 7.5-10% palmitic acid; 1.5-3% stearic acid - the ratios are similar to that found in wild oleifera.
They are typically baked simply with butter until the whites have set and the yolks are thickened, and are usually served in the dish in which they were baked.
This method of preserving food is commonly used in food catering and, recently, in the preparation of "instant" foods, as it ensures the safety and the quality of the food product.
She also began to revise and expand The Slovene Cookbook, including updates on food storage and preservation as well as many more recipes.
Additional patterns have been created specifically for this market, including Bliss, Blue Elegance, Cool Pansies, Country Rose, Dainty Flora, Dandy Blossoms, Elegant City, European Herbs, Herb Country, Lilyville, Lush, Petite Trio, Plum, Salad Seasons and Warm Pansies among others.
Kitchen ventilation is the branch of ventilation specialising in the treatment of air from kitchens.
All six units are the traditional British equivalents of the US customary cup and the metric cup, used in situations where a US cook would use the US customary cup and a cook using metric units the metric cup.
Notable alumni Angie Mar Antonia Lofaso Bobby Flay, alumnus of the 1st class in 1984 Carla Lalli Music Chris Morocco Christina Tosi Dan Barber David Chang Gilat Bennett Kate Williams Lara Trump Lee Anne Wong Serge Madikians Travis London Wylie Dufresne References External links Official website
Bundt pans, angelfood cake pans, and springform pans can be substituted for purpose-made timbale bakeware.
rendering industry, with their personal backing and/or direct participation in the rendering industry.
General overview The term is descriptive of the overall size and proportions of the tool, and not the materials it may be made of, though most mallets have striking faces that are softer than steel.
Research and development was a continuous process of trial and error, including experimentation carried out by Minami's wife Fumiko.
Trained kitchen staff was essential to the birth of haute cuisine in France, which was organized at the turn of the 20th century by August Escoffier into the brigade de cuisine.
They believe she has the power to keep roasts from burning, pots from boiling over, and sauces from spilling.
The Kitchen God was originally believed to have resided in the stove and only later took on human form.
Refinement then alters the appearance, texture, taste, smell, or stability of the oil to meet buyer expectations.
See also Fish knife Fish fork References Further reading Rabinovitch, Benton Seymour; Macapia, Paul, eds.
Grégoire de Fournas de Brosse (French pronunciation: [ɡʁeɡwaʁ də fuʁnas]; born 19 March 1985) is a French politician who represented the National Assembly Party in the National Assembly from 2022 to 2024.
She has been named one of the "Top 25 Wine Innovators" and she has been an invited speaker at Must Summit, Master of Wine Symposium and the American Society of Wine Educators, Decanter Wine Encounter, the Smithsonian Institution and the Vancouver Playhouse among others.
In 2007 Enologix made the first Classification of Napa Valley American Viticultural Areas-to TASTE³ which brings together more than forty of the most compelling writers, thinkers, chefs, winemakers, journalists, artisans, and executives as speakers.
After his death his descendants returned to Coquimbito to continue the work of Don Felipe and expand the business, guided by Doña Ernesta and her sons Francisco, Italo and Oscar.
Biography William Macarthur was born at Parramatta in December 1800, the fifth son of John and Elizabeth Macarthur, pioneers of the Australian wool industry.
The grapes used in the making of base wine are picked when they are green, so that the grape skins do not break during handling and release as little phenols as possible.
The pectin content of grapes increases steadily throughout ripening, reaching levels of about 1 g/L, although it varies by varietal and pre-fermentation handling processes.
As such, Veronese's depiction of the crowded banquet-scene that is The Wedding Feast at Cana is meant to be viewed upwards, from below – because the painting's bottom-edge was 2.50 metres from the refectory floor, behind and above the head-table seat of the abbot of the monastery.
He has been featured in local publications including Philadelphia Inquirer, Philadelphia Magazine, and Philadelphia City Paper for his work in wine education and writing.
If the newlyweds were married before, the seudat nissuin lasts three days instead of seven, and the blessings are only recited after the first day's meal.
Even if the must is cooled back down, fermentation will be very difficult to restart due to a chemical compound released by the dying yeast that serves as an inhibitor to the growth of future yeast cells in the batch.
He then went on to marry Elisabeth Wolfinger (4 March 1870 – 15 August 1948) on 3 June 1901 and they had another five children together.
'wedding feast' or 'marriage supper') is a seudat mitzvah that observant Jews eat after a Jewish wedding.
DMDC is also used to stabilize non-alcoholic beverages such as carbonated or non-carbonated juice beverages, isotonic sports beverages, iced teas and flavored waters.
A typical Campden tablet contains 0.44 g of sodium metabisulfite, plus filler; eight of these are equivalent to one-half level teaspoon (2.5 mL) of sodium metabisulfite.
Peter soon dropped out of school "ostensibly to be some support to my recently widowed mother," he says.
Marriage and issue Natalia met Gerald Grosvenor, Earl Grosvenor, at a ball at Blenheim Palace in 1977.
He studied at Marlborough College in Wiltshire and learnt about vine-growing and winemaking on the European mainland.
Grapes had been grown in the Mudgee area by three German families, including that of Adam Roth, as early as 1858.
External links Brix to Specific Gravity Table Brix, Specific Gravity & Sugar Conversions Brix, Plato, Balling, Specific gravity
and the Yield-Book & Citigroup’s Global Fixed Income Index Business from Citigroup, making FTSE Russell the largest Index Company in the World with ca $15 Trillion of Assets under benchmark.
Catherine however was able to sell the glass tumbler for a shilling to a customer, who purchased it as a memento.
It is a common misconception that Campden tablets can be used to halt the ferment process in wine before all the available sugars are converted by the yeast, hence controlling the amount of residual sweetness in the final product.
Rosetti notes that Scarlat was an object of admiration by other prisoners, and, increasingly, by the "foreign officials" who oversaw his imprisonment, since he mostly focused on educating himself and others.
According to Dave McIntyre for the Washington Post, as a consulting winemaker, by 2019 she had "crafted some of Napa’s most touted, and most expensive, cabernets," noting her cabernet vintages for Scarecrow.
Swedish-based commentator René Kieffer suggests that the evangelist "probably includes what [had] happened in Cana" among these signs.
The Prosecco Project In December 2023, Ziraldo launched his Prosecco wine made from single-vineyard in the ‘Al Canevon’ Estate in Conegliano Valdobbiadene which lies in hilly countryside situated 50 km from Venice and around 100 km from the Dolomites.
Unlike the German designation Trockenbeerenauslese (TBA), QGN is no official designation, but it could be thought of as the Alsatian equivalent of a high-grade TBA.
The family of Palomino's in-laws, the Vergaras, were distantly related to the Nocedal family; the Nocedals, the Vergaras and the Palominos maintained family relations.
In what was described as an amicable split, Jackson agreed on a severance of US$400,000 (equivalent to $985,736 in 2025), plus $10,000 a month while Steele trained his successor.
Biography After the revocation of the edict of Nantes, Pierre Joubert (Jaubert) went into exile at the age of 24, leaving La Motte-d'Aigues to reach Rotterdam in the Netherlands.
In 1847 he established Pewsey Vale winery in Eden Valley, the same year Jacob's Creek winery was established in the neighbouring Barossa Valley, with substantial cellars, and Pewsey Vale clarets, burgundies and hocks achieved considerable success.
He started an oenology laboratory at the Gironde Chamber of Agriculture with Jacques Blouin in 1967.
He sent plants to James Backhouse which are now in the Herbarium at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the British Museum.
The Stymie line, the reserve wines, took its name from the horse his father supposedly bet on and ended up winning big, funding the family's move from New York City to San Francisco.
Galets roulés are components of the terrain, or terroir, and a distinguishing feature of many of the vineyards in the Côtes du Rhône AOC and more specifically Châteauneuf-du-Pape AOC and other top wine-producing areas in the regions such as Gigondas AOC and Vacqueyras AOC.
Walter Frick (born 4 July 1956) is a politician from Liechtenstein who served in the Landtag of Liechtenstein from 2021 to 2025.
He joined Mouton Rothschild Group in the early 1980s, becoming technical director in 1984 and finally group managing director.
"Roth, Adam (1827–1898)", in Australian Dictionary of Biography; first published in hardcopy of Australian Dictionary of Biography, Volume 11, Melbourne University Press, 1988.
Mead This term is also used by meadmakers for the unfermented honey-water mixture that becomes mead.
Marilyn Monroe was one of the House's supporters, rumoured to have kept a month's supply of champagne in her kitchen.
Benefits Depending on the varietal, the process of maceration can help bring out many flavors in the wine that would otherwise be lacking.
He and Kaiser have been credited with starting the first winery in Canada since Prohibition as founders of Inniskillin Winery in Niagara, Canada.
Masurel was an independent director of the Société des bains de mer de Monaco since 1994, and was named CEO of the gambling group in 2011.
He made the Roma district renowned throughout Queensland for the excellence of its grapes and its wines.
Pectins are structural molecules in the cell walls of fruits which have the important function of 'gumming' plant cells together.
As yeast cells die, enzymes within the cells begin autolyzing by breaking down the cell, including the amino acids.
Wilbraham Harley Young (1856 – 19 January 1887) died at Burketown after being thrown from a horse; subject of stained-glass window.
At the hotel, Rothschild hung a pastel by de La Tour, which he bought for $120,000 at the Jacques Doucet sale in 1912.
Hess matched the Allied Domecq offer, adding a special dividend to the deal, and purchased the company for a market valuation of $103 million USD.
In 2022, the San Francisco Chronicle described her as a member "of an elite order of Napa winemaking consultants" along with Philippe Melka, Mike Smith, Andy Erickson, Aaron Pott, Julien Fayard, Jean Hoeflinger, Sam Kaplan, Tony Biagi and Heidi Barrett.
He took the firm from £800 million to £14 billion in value during his tenure and was ranked as one of the best 100 CEOs in the world in 2017 by the Harvard Business Review.
A typical path for a young man from a well-off family would have been studying law, most likely in Seville, but there is no confirmation of Palomino graduating either in the early 1920s or at any other time.
Academics, such as Roger Boulton at UC-Davis, would question the methods Enologix uses and whether they actually work because Enologix has not publicly released their data and exact details of measurements.
Polyphasic taxonomy of acetic acid bacteria: An overview of the currently applied methodology, 2008 Int.
In 2008, Ziraldo was awarded the Premio Masi by his peers in Verona, Italy, and the Folio D’oro in Friuli, Italy in 2010.
In 2005, Mondavi and his younger brother Peter made wine together for the first time after their feud.
Reception In 2016, the Bettane & Desseauve wine guide gave Château des Jacques 3 stars, stating "A viticulture respecting soil life, a meticulous vinification and a balanced ageing.
He entertained eminent scientific men who visited the Colony and bore the reputation of a cultured gentleman.
Career In 1862, Bundschu immigrated from Mannheim, Germany to San Francisco, California and was employed in the produce business.
As at 2020, his Romavilla Winery continues to operate and is listed on the Queensland Heritage Register.
Awards and recognition voted Best 2006 Ideas by Business Week Criticisms of Disruptive New Model Enologix solution was disruptive.
Other genera, such as Gluconobacter, do not oxidize ethanol, as they do not have a full set of Krebs cycle enzymes.
Another potential cause is a combination of lack of oxygen and yeast nutrients found in the lipids suspended in grape solids.
Macarthur was a competent botanist, horticulturist and agriculturist, and his operations helped to make Camden Park celebrated.
For many years he was a large and regular exhibitor of wines at the Brisbane Exhibition, and winning many prizes.
In her last year on the council, she was the president of the Committee for Environment, Agriculture, and Management.
The word connotes or emphasizes the critical role that vineyard placement and maintenance has in the production of high-quality wine.
Without a job, he drove to San Francisco with friends and settled in Sonoma County in 1968, and from 1971 he worked as a tractor driver and field worker under vineyard manager John Rolleri at Chateau Montelena.
Most dioceses (over 70, as of 2004) require an initial face to face meeting with their parish deacon or priest at least 6 months prior to the wedding, with a growing trend to ask couples to complete their preparation at least 6 weeks prior to their wedding.
The vines are ungrafted and planted on their rootstock in the Patagonian Desert which has little risk of developing phylloxera.
It is believed that the practice may also have been adopted because it was found empirically to give deeper and better colour to wines, which is due to improved co-pigmentation resulting from some components in white grapes.
Their particles each have an electric charge which is attracted to the oppositely charged particles of the colloidal dispersion that they are breaking.
The same while brewing beer at a brewery is known as trub – the same from secondary fermentation of wine and beer are the lees or equally, as to beer only, dregs.
They had three children: William Gilbert (12 October 1850 – 29 March 1923) born at "Pewsey Vale", married Mary Young Clindening (26 January 1854 – 7 May 1939) on 22 July 1879; further developed the Pewsey Vale Estate.
The Robert Mondavi Institute (RMI) for Wine and Food Science at the University of California, Davis opened in October 2008 in his honor.
In brewing and winemaking, free amino nitrogen (FAN) is a measure of the concentration of individual amino acids and small peptides (one to three units) which can be utilized by beer and wine yeast for cell growth and proliferation.
Carol Shelton Wines Shelton-Mackenzie Wine Company distributes Shelton's namesake label, Carol Shelton Wines.
She has also been a guest blogger for eRobertParker.com and The Huffington Post and has been interviewed by Winelibrary.com, The Leonard Lopate show and The Drinks Business and NPR Radio, Here and Now.
Initially, a young Paolo Antonio Ascierto, wanted to follow in his father's footsteps and become a carabiniere, but his father opposed the idea, insisting that he should have embraced the field of medicine.
His father was Lutheran Pastor Franz Julius Lehmann, and son may have joined father in the ministry but for Franz' sudden death in 1945, aged 55.
It then breaks down into small amounts of methanol and carbon dioxide, which are both natural constituents of fruit and vegetable juices.
(Fergusson became Professor of Tactics, Military Law and Administration at Royal Military College, Sandhurst, Berkshire).
Eric Asimov of The New York Times cited Twomey's 2009 Anderson Valley Pinot noir as "one of our favorites, bigger and softer but with both finesse and intensity." Personal life Baron resides in Napa, California, with his wife, Gwyneth; they have three children together who are now of adult age.
In the case of a stuck fermentation, a winemaker may wish to transfer the must to a second vessel and use stronger, more aggressive yeasts with high fermentation temperatures to re-initiate the fermentation process.
Personal He has competed in several editions of the Dakar Rally, finishing 82nd (out of 575 crew on the starting line) in the 2009 edition with co-pilot Jean-Louis Juchault.
In terms of internal power struggle, Palomino is currently considered a representative of the Carlist “old wave”, people whose elevation gave comfort to the Traditionalists, but who were ready to accept the new trends.
Torulaspora delbrueckii can be an opportunistic spoilage yeast for dairy products or soft drinks (fruit juices, etc.).
During this time the wine is deliberately kept in contact with its lees inside the bottle for a period ranging from a couple of months to several years.
He took 16 wickets at an average of 10.87, with figures of 6 for 64 and 6 for 5 against Tasmania in 1870–71.
Together with Peter Bittner and photographer Ján Štrba, they are the authors of three books: the first edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown with a compilation CD (2001), Koncerty mladosti ´76, ´77 – Československý Woodstock (2007), and the second edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown (2024).
Agoston Haraszthy incorporated the Buena Vista property under the name of the Buena Vista Vinicultural Society in 1863.
Mondavi married Blanche Hurtzig after his military service, and they remained together until her death in 2010.
Many winemakers also feel that better integration of fruit and oak character can be achieved if malolactic fermentation occurs during the time the wine is in barrel.
Bladder A bladder press consists of a large cylinder, closed at each end, into which the fruit is loaded.
Zinfandel Haraszthy planted Zinfandel grape vines in his vineyards and frequently used Zinfandel grapes in the production of his wines, both still and sparkling.
Pompeii is unusually well documented for a Roman city, and gives a valuable source of information about the professional opportunities of Ancient Roman women.
In February 1856 Young was appointed Draughstman with the Public Works Department, and by September 1856 was working as a surveyor.
Capoluongo, Vanna Chiarion-Sileni, Gabriella Farina, Antonio Marchetti, Daniela Massi, Alessandro M.
Career In 1968, he interned for a few months in the cellar of Stony Hill Vineyard in Napa Valley, owned by Fred and Eleanor McCrea, who were friends of his parents, living with writer M.
Mondavi graduated from Stanford University in 1936 with a degree in economics and business administration.
He functioned as ministerial commissioner responsible for the Ős-Dráva Program ("Ancient Drava Programme") regional development concept between 14 June 2014 and 15 June 2016.
Château des Fontaines Upon his 1895 marriage, his mother gifted him the Château des Fontaines in Gouvieux near Chantilly.
When these laws were officially recognized in 1984 they were among the strictest AOC requirements in the French wine industry.
He had considerable success with wines also, though according to one source, he treated winemaking more as a hobby than a business.
The addition of cultured yeast normally occurs with the yeast first in a dried or "inactive" state and is reactivated in warm water or diluted grape juice prior to being added to the must.
Originally a field worker for John Rolleri at Chateau Montelena, he gained experience in the Bordeaux region of France and was mentored by the likes of grape geneticist Professor Harold Olmo, and winemakers Jean-Claude Berrouet and Justin Meyer.
Domaine de la Tour du Bon Domaine de la Tour du Bon is located atop a limestone hill in Le Brûlat du Castellet, in the northwest of the A.O.C.
Along with his wife, Jill Matthiasson, he co-founded Matthiasson Family Vineyards in Napa Valley, California in 2003.
While the other properties were sold not long after his death, Chateau Latour stayed within his family till 1963.
Politics In September 1878 Young was elected a member of the Legislative Council but resigned in June 1880 to take a trip to England.
Winemaking and philosophy Baron has been outspoken on the influence of terroir, the emphasis on vineyard selection, fruit maturity, and other factors in creating Silver Oak's distinct style.
The typical wine grape will have anywhere from 22 to 1242 mg of nitrogen/liter derived from free amino acids.
Zsolt Tiffán (23 August 1965 – 12 April 2025) was a Hungarian winemaker and politician, member of the National Assembly (MP) for Siklós (Baranya County Constituency VI) from 2010 to 2014, and for Orosháza (Baranya County Constituency IV) from 2014 to 2018.
Media outlets also reported that Edwards was being investigated by the Department of Finance over the employment, in his parliamentary office, of an executive of a company he chaired before entering parliament.
From 1994 Klaß served as a Member of the European Parliament for Rhineland-Palatinate, representing the conservative German Christian Democratic Union, part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Permission can be granted habitually, for as long as the situation that occasioned the granting of permission continues (e.g., the priest is an alcoholic).
It is known that at the moment of takeover in 1957 Palomino was a “jefe regional de Sevilla”, which probably stands for leadership in Western Andalusia; Valiente intended to nominate him the head for entire Andalusia, which generated some dissent in the local Granada jeafatura.
"An early act of the new French Government" in November 1944, "was to restore to him both his property and his citizenship." He returned to Europe, spent some time in Portugal, before returning to his home at Castel Beau Cèdre in April 1946, where he lived until his death in 1947.
McClosky, of Enologix, has replied to this criticism by noting the scores aid the wine drinking consumer in knowing whether or not a bottle of wine is worth the price that they are paying for the wine.
Developed in 1991 by Patrick DuCournau, working with the exceptionally tannic grape Tannat in Madiran, the process gained usage in modern winemaking following the 1996 authorization by the European Commission.
purchased a West Kelowna vineyard in 1956 which Ben would later incorporate as Quails' Gate Estate Winery.
Château des Jacques is a wine producer located in Moulin-à-Vent, in the north of the Beaujolais region.
Vineyard ownership In 1716, Alexandre de Ségur bought Château Lafite and, following his death that occurred soon after, the estate passed on to Nicolas-Alexandre.
She and her siblings spent their childhoods with a half-acre vineyard in their backyard, and her father was a home winemaker and wine collector.
She sourced the organic fruit from her orchard and the Kiwi Growers Cooperative Society in Arunachal Pradesh.
Since 1994, he has owned Orfila Vineyards and Winery, an award-winning vineyard in the San Pasqual Valley, in Escondido, California.
Food Microbiol.Volume 163, issue 2-3, 204-213 External links International conference on acetic acid bacteria
Wedding at Cana also known as Wedding Feast at Cana and Le Nozze di Cana is an oil painting by Michael Damaskinos.
Some of My Best Friends Are Winemakers: A History of the Wine Industry of Mudgee, Hunters Hill, N.S.W.: Gilbert Wahlquist, 2008.
Some species are known as "killer yeast" that produce inhibitory levels of ethyl acetate and acetic acid that can kill off sensitive strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Saccharomycodes Schizosaccharomyces, the only wine yeast that reproduced by fission whereas most wine yeast reproduce by budding.
The deeper the vessel, the greater the proportion of grapes that could be exposed to an anaerobic environment caused by the release of carbon dioxide from the crushed grapes on the bottom.
Wine was being made at least as long ago as 4000 BC; in 2011, a winepress was unearthed in Armenia with red wine dated 6,000 years old.
He then sold La Motte to Pierre Joubert, a Huguenot settler, who went on to name it after his ancestral home in France.
During the 2010s he was one of the prominent figures of progressive views and politics in Greece as well as a founding member of the ecological organization Arcturos.
On 21 December 2004, archaeologists reported finding in Kafr Kanna "pieces of large stone jars of the type the Gospel says Jesus used when he turned water into wine".
In 2018, Stewart returned to politics following Clark's resignation from the legislature and ran to succeed her in a February 14, 2018 by-election in what is now Kelowna West.
A pioneer of aviation, this extraordinary man promoted the house by flying around the world in his own plane.
2011-2023 The Orange County Register reported in 2019 that Welch was primarily focused on Yount Ridge Cellars, a Napa Valley vineyard near Oakville, California.
The second bottling will then be half 3.5 years old and half four years old (the wine left in the last barrel at the previous cycle), for an average age of 3.75 years.
600–700 thousand poods were exported to various cities of the Russian Empire through the port and by rail.
In 2013, she took winemaking courses and attained all her business degrees after age 31 and giving birth to 6 children in 7 years.
Throughout the growing season, Enologix would test and track the developing components of the grapes and can use calculation to try and better gauge the optimal ripeness of the grapes to set an ideal time for harvesting.
He migrated to South Australia in 1839 on the Buckinghamshire and immediately erected his prefabricated two-roomed Manning cottage on an Adelaide allotment.
Other historical evidence from the Byzantine and Medieval periods show that Khirbet Kana was regarded as the true site of New Testament Cana from a very early period.
Boutaris died in Thessaloniki on 9 November 2024, at the age of 82, days after undergoing a hip operation.
The later Junta declaration protested the expulsions and maintained that Carlism would never bend to "any group of interest", which probably stood for supporters of Don Juan Carlos.
In New Jersey, Haraszthy became acquainted with the grape vines in Mészáros's nursery, cuttings of which Mészáros was then sending by ship to Agoston Haraszthy in California.
They were extremely influential on Australian wine, and caught planes from harvest-to-harvest, providing hands-on advice.
They are actively present in environments where ethanol is being formed as a product of the fermentation of sugars.
At Pitești and Râmnicu Vâlcea, Demostene gathered up survivors of the battle which had taken place on Dealul Spirii.
Mondavi selected Cliff May to design the winery building, which opened in 1966 and is now considered an architectural icon in the Napa Valley, with an expansive entryway arch and bell tower.
Other good sources are fresh apple cider and unpasteurized beer that has not been filter sterilized.
The growth of Acetobacter in wine can be suppressed through effective sanitation, by complete exclusion of air from wine in storage, and by the use of moderate amounts of sulfur dioxide in the wine as a preservative.
Piper-Heidsieck was acquired on July 8, 2011, by the French luxury group EPI (Entreprise Patrimoniale d’Investissements), controlled by the Descours family.
The third bottling will be an average age of 4.25 years (one half wine that was left over from the second bottling—average age 4.75 years, and one half wine transferred from the second barrel after the second bottling—average age 3.75 years).
Cliff Ohmart to co-author the influential Lodi Winegrower's Workbook: A Self-Assessment of Integrated Vineyard Practices.
He was state president of the South Australian division of the Liberal Party and a member of the Liberal Party Federal Executive and Finance Committee from 2007 to 2010.
In 1964 he became the political adviser to the Managing Director of the Adela Investment Company, the largest multinational development corporation for growing the Latin American economy.
In Paris he set up a large private hospital, known as the Rothschild Hospital, of which he was head physician.
Campden tablets allow the amateur brewer to easily measure small quantities of sodium metabisulfite, so they can be used to protect against wild yeast and bacteria without affecting flavour.
Upon taking over the Domaine in 1989, Henry worked with Thierry Puzelat, who served as lead winemaker.
Using grapes from both family vineyards, they produced one barrel of cabernet blend, which was sold for $400,000 under the name "Ancora Una Volta" ("Once Again") at the 2005 Napa Valley Auction.
During fermentation, the added oxygen can help maintain the viability of the yeast to minimize the risk of stuck fermentation and the production of undesirable sulfides.
Vineyards included in the domaine's holdings include: Grand Clos de Rochegrès, Clos du Grand Carquelin, Champ de Cour, La Roche, Clos des Thorins, La Rochelle and Côte du Py.
The day before his arrest by the Gestapo, he fled to North Africa, became a fighter pilot in the famous Lafayette Escadrille, and died in combat in 1944.
When De La Warr left Virginia the following year in order to recuperate from a bout of scurvy, Bohun accompanied him on the trip.
The smell of the wine cellar at Sebastiani triggered her interest in winemaking and she decided to study enology and received her degree in 1978.
She later joined FDP.The Liberals and was elected to the Grand Council of Geneva, serving from 2013 to 2018.
The length of time a wine spends in the barrel is dependent on the varietal and finished style the winemaker desires.
She supported the abolition of the stamp duty tax, which is required by Swiss companies when they issue shares or bonds to increase equity.
Torulaspora delbrueckii was formerly known as Saccharomyces delbrueckii or Saccharomyces rosei or Saccharomyces roseus, and the anamorph is called Candida colliculosa (for a complete list of synonyms, see CBS's website).
This Andalusian tradition is comparable in character to France's Beaujolais Nouveau: seasonal, unfiltered, and consumed within the same year of production.
He also served as chairman of the Rishon Lezion branch of the Association of colonies, branch chairman of the Association of Rishon Lezion, member of the Maccabi Eretz Israel, and was a member of an organization headquarters defense.
During Steele's tenure, Kendall-Jackson's annual case production soared from 35,000 in 1982 to more than 700,000 in 1991.
On this occasion, he brought out from France a bible in a loaf of bread, visible in the French Huguenot Memorial Museum in Franschoek, South Africa.
External links Ach Gott, wie manches Herzeleid, BWV 3: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project BWV 3 Ach Gott, wie manches Herzeleid English translation.
Governo is a winemaking technique reportedly invented in Tuscany in the 14th century to help complete fermentation and stabilize the wine.
Ascierto was heard in an official hearing at the Italian Chamber of Deputies, presenting data suggesting tocilizumab reduced COVID-19 mortality by approximately 22 % in clinical use, underscoring its potential benefit.
Stabilization As a complex chemical mixture dependent on the activity of microorganisms, wine can be unstable and reactive to changes in its environment.
In the 1490s, he had commissioned the Triptych of the Sedano family, a more traditional triptych also with donor portraits of himself, his wife, and a son (possibly grown up to be the wine-server here).
Symbolism The Wedding Feast at Cana is a painting of the Early Modern period (1453–1789); the religious and theological narrative of Veronese's interpretation of the water-into-wine miracle is in two parts.
Under French inheritance laws, vineyard holdings were often split until offspring owned no more than a single row of grapes, not enough to fill a barrel.
In 1991, she founded a medical communication company called Götz & Cie Cardio Diffusion, which she managed until 1996.
Having increased output in one year to 17,000 imperial gallons (77,000 L) this would rank as a very serious hobby.
In 2013 he was featured in a Grey Goose ad that focuses on the initial controversy of making vodka as a Maître de Chai, and the eventual acceptance of the practice in France.
The Marechal de Richelieu introduced the wines of Chateau Lafite to the royal court of Louis XV and spoke glowingly of the wine's invigorating benefits.
Léon studied oenology at Bordeaux University, where he was taught by Émile Peynaud, graduating in 1964.
Seeing the opportunity, they set out to produce premium varietal wines from premium grapes grown in the Niagara Peninsula.
Macarthur is commemorated in the genus Macarthuria Hugel ex Endl., also in the species: Cyathea macarthurii F.Muell.
Along with Kaiser, they worked together for 30 years to establish Inniskillin and put Canadian wines, which were virtually unknown at the time, on the world wine map.
Close to President Juan Perón since his days in the Soviet Union, Orfila was appointed Ambassador to the United States by the populist Argentine leader, back in power in 1973 after an 18-year-long exile.
In 2011, Ziraldo was asked to manage a Port winery in the Douro Valley, Portugal, under the brand Senhora Do Convento.
Curtis Alexander Reid (16 July 1836 – 1 July 1886) was an Australian cricketer and umpire who umpired the historic first Test match in Melbourne in 1877.
He succeeded Xaver Bargetze as a full member of the Landtag upon his death on 29 October 1913 and held this position until January 1926.
In his spare time, he enjoys spending time with his wife and two sons, skateboarding, and listening to punk rock bands such as Minutemen, Black Flag, Minor Threat, and Dead Kennedys.
He later moved his flock to a selection near Lyndoch, which he named "Pewsey Vale" and developed into an ideal country home.
The 10,000 residents of Qana are primarily Shia although there is also a Melkite (Greek Catholic) Christian community in the village.
He presided over the Piper-Heidsieck Champagnes for thirty-three years, balancing development imperatives with family sustainability.
His grandfather, Dick Sr., had moved to the Okanagan in 1911 where he started a nursery growing fruit and shade trees.
To better connect fundamental research with practical applications and maximize the institution's scientific capabilities, new legislation was developed at the President's direction and passed by the National Assembly in April 2011.
For example, children demonstrate a facility for acquiring spoken language but require intensive training to learn to read and write.
See also COCOA (digital humanities) Cross-reference Ctags KWIC Language industry Statistically improbable phrase == References ==
Abeghyan Institute of Literature Institute of Art Museum-Institute of Genocide Shirak Armenology Research Center Armenian Encyclopedia Publishing House All Armenian Foundation Financing Armenological Studies See also Education in Armenia Karlen G.
BAKITA coordinates its activities with similar bodies in Kenya and Uganda to aid in the development of Kiswahili.
The Academy of Persian Language and Literature (APLL; Persian: فرهنگستان زبان و ادب فارسی, Farhangestân-e Zabân-o Adab-e Fârsi) is the regulatory body for the Persian language, headquartered in Tehran, Iran.
The Parishad according to Deshpande lead in the demand for the formation of a separate linguistic state – Maharashtra.
It publishes the Ladino magazine Aki Yerushalayim for the Sephardi community in Israel and the diaspora.
On the first of July 1974 the Institute of Modern Languages was established as an integral part of University of Dhaka, incorporating the Department of Foreign Languages of 1964 into its constitution.
Notable among these are the decades long periodic reviews of the 25 years of annual pan-Chinese rosters since 2000 and compilation of new word databases (LIVAC Annual Pan-Chinese New Word Rosters).
Supported bodies Relevant bodies to which the agency provides funding include the Ulster-Scots Language Society, Ullans Speakers Association and the Ulster-Scots Community Network.
Professor Clara Momanyi, Secretary of CHAKITA, was tasked with translation of the new Constitution of Kenya, which was approved in the 2010 referendum.
However, when the first verb is in an -ing form, it is only grammatical to follow it with a to-infinitive.
The majority of the texts are from written English, collected from websites, newspapers, magazines and books.
They also showed that this probability of mismatch is a central probability in one of the fundamental probabilistic retrieval models, the Binary Independence Model.
All the collected data is analyzed by linguists that develop a form of writing which is accepted by the speakers.
Jha has been described as "the most noteworthy contribution to the field of Maithili linguistics." == References ==
The Center for the Studies of the Royal Spanish Academy, opened in 2007, is located at Calle Serrano 187–189.
Some members are also affiliated with the Institute of Linguistics of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
The Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages of the Canadian government is responsible for achieving the objectives of, and promoting, Canada's Official Languages Act.
Kant claimed that humans, from birth, must experience all objects as being successive (time) and juxtaposed (space).
It was born in 2009, evolving from the association's previous Área Editorial da AGAL (AGAL's Editorial Area), thus gaining greater entity and autonomy.
Regarding the allegation that books of BLB were burnt, former Sarawak state DBP deputy director said that old books were written off or given away when it was expired, no longer needed, or there were overstocks.
Paul Rodgers and Richard Braddock focused on paragraph structure, in separate studies, in order to dispel common misjudgments about the importance of traditional paragraph structure.
It has offices in various autonomous universities of UP System, the most notable of which is the one housed at the University of the Philippines Diliman (i.e.
The Academy's dictionaries In pursuance of its goals of maintaining and strengthening the Swedish language, the Academy publishes three dictionaries.
However, the nature of individual change is generally found to be not the rejection of new variants by older speakers, as associated with the age-grading model, but the late adoption of new variants by adults who learned older variants as children.
This ended in 1938 when the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts and the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium were set up.
Although Greenberg did not produce an explicit argument for monogenesis, all of his classification work was geared toward this end.
References External links Japan-Netherlands Institute Publications at the Wayback Machine Repository of The Japan-Netherlands Institute at the Leiden University Office Tokyo
Still, however, it may remain doubtfull whether the Danes and the Swedes could not, in general, understand each other tolerably well...
Two linguists, Joan Bresnan of Stanford University and Sam Mchombo of the University of California, Berkeley, maintain the idea of words as unanalyzable units; Bresnan & Mchombo (1995) re-evaluate this theory using evidence from Bantu to resolve clitics' apparent violations of the LIH.
In addition to regularly hosting the Nostratic Seminar, the school also hosts the Annual Sergei Starostin Memorial Conference on Comparative-Historical Linguistics.
This decision evoked a mixed reaction throughout Wales: welcomed by Cymdeithas yr Iaith Gymraeg but met with scepticism by others.
In 1962, Illich-Svitych began working on a book about Nostrative comparative linguistics called A Tentative Comparison of the Nostratic Languages (Russian: Опытом сравнения ностратических языков).
The tasks of Oqaasileriffik is to research the Greenlandic language including its dialects, set the orthography, approve foreign and new words, publish terminology lists and reports informing language policy, and to provide information, advice and recommendation on Greenlandic.
Each member is elected for life by the rest of the academicians from among prestigious Spanish-language authors.
External links CorCenCC National Corpus of Contemporary Welsh website CorCenCC GitHub Y Tiwtiadur, a Welsh language pedagogic toolkit == References ==
1 – 7 were issued in 1989 Confrontational research of the Slavic languages vocabulary Czech-Slovak Dictionary, 2nd ed.
The terminology extraction feature provides a list of relevant terms based on comparison with a large corpus of general language.
Access is currently restricted to authors and researchers working on projects and publications for Cambridge University Press, and researchers at Cambridge English Language Assessment.
Besides publishing books and articles, Benzing devoted much time and care to highly instructive book reviews containing profound analyses and complementary remarks on important scholarly questions.
History The Council for the Development of French in Louisiana (CODOFIL) was established in 1968 to promote the preservation of French language and culture in Louisiana.
It also contributed to the development of test for speech therapy for West Frisian, which made it possible to assess children's linguistic progress in West Frisian.
The Central Hindi Directorate (Hindi: केन्द्रीय हिन्दी निदेशालय, romanized: Kendrīya Hindī Nideśālay), New Delhi is the directorate, under the Ministry of Education (India), responsible for promotion of Standard Hindi.
In 1950 it was merged with the N.Ya.Marr Institute of Language and Mind and became the Institute of Linguistics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, but in 1958 it was re-established.
Dhivehi Language Academy (Dhivehi: ދިވެހިބަހުގެ އެކެޑަމީ, romanized: Dhivehibahuge Ekedamee), is the national academy for promoting the Dhivehi language in the Maldives, established on 8 August 2011.
The Sentro ng Wikang Filipino (SWF; literally, "Center of the Filipino Language"), also known the Sentro, is a language academy, research center, and university-based publishing house that is part of the University of the Philippines System (UP).
In 1896, the Zeeman effect was discovered at the institution by Pieter Zeeman and shortly afterward explained by Hendrik Antoon Lorentz.
The hypothesis has fallen out of favour since the latter half of the 20th century and has limited degrees of acceptance, predominantly among a minority of Russian linguists.
It received an annual government grant of £13m which was used to "promote and facilitate" the use of the Welsh language.
These rules were later amended by Rabindranath Tagore and other scholars and practiced at academic level in all over Bengal for next 70 years.
This article provides a list of all full members (académicos de número), past and present, of the Real Academia Española, the Spanish language regulator institution, as of July 1, 2006.
Inbound anaphoric islands Phrases can contain pronouns that function as anaphors (referring to a previous referent) or deictics (referring to a salient entity), derived words and compounds cannot, and act as "anaphoric islands", separated from outside reference.
Many of the ideas often attributed to Saussure were already present in work by the Kazan school, which Saussure was aware of.
The Language Act was founded on the principle of Russian-Estonian bilingualism, requiring individuals in certain positions to demonstrate proficiency in Estonian in addition to Russian.
The School values the classical works of Jakob von Uexküll and Juri Lotman as well as those of Charles Sanders Peirce.
The output of a concordancer may serve as input to a translation memory system for computer-assisted translation, or as an early step in machine translation.
The sources are writings of all sorts, from "literary novels and specialist journals to everyday newspapers and magazines and from Hansard to the language of blogs, emails, and social media".
I-IV Nirendranath Chakravarty Gadya Samagra (Ek-Tritiya) – Complete Prose Works of Nirendranath Chakravarty, Vols.
Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature Prize Since its early days, the Royal Academy has issued an annual prize for what the academy considered outstanding research and work in the Dutch language.
The Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala, or ALMG (English: Guatemalan Academy of Mayan Languages) is a Guatemalan organisation that regulates the use of the 22 Mayan languages spoken within the borders of the republic.
The date by which such a grouping must have dissolved—in that innovations ceased to be shared—is also contentious, though it seems unlikely to have persisted after 500 AD, by which time the Anglo-Saxons had migrated to England and the Elbe Germanic tribes had settled in Southern Germany.
The texts come from a variety of sources: TV/Movies subtitles: (128 million words) Texts taken from the OpenSubtitles collection of American TV shows and movies.
'group of keepers of the Basque language'; often called in English Royal Academy of the Basque Language) is the official academic language regulatory institution which watches over the Basque language.
IASCL was founded in 1970 by a group of prominent language acquisition researchers to promote international and interdisciplinary cooperation in the study of child language.
The Royal Academy of Valencian Culture has had several moments of collaboration with the local, provincial, and regional governments, which have usually collaborated with its finance.
Using Latin alphabet letters Supporters included Yang Zenghao and Liu Using non-existent symbols Supporters included Wu, Lu, Ma, Li, Xing, Wang Sui, Hu, Yang Qu, Gao, Chen, and Zheng.
It creates, collects and distributes speech and text databases, lexicons, and other resources for linguistics research and development purposes.
Krauss Alaska Native Language Archive (ANLA) in Fairbanks, Alaska, is an extensive repository for manuscripts and recordings documenting the Native Languages of Alaska.
Early hominids may have evolved capacities for similar, non-semantic purposes, that were later modified for symbolic language.
Elicitation, in which knowledge is sought directly from human beings, is usually distinguished from indirect methods such as gathering information from written sources.
Melbourne (CBD) La Trobe has a city campus in the Melbourne central business district, on Collins Street.
History The academy came into being through two disparate organisations working towards the same goal at different times.
The Institute published the Dictionary of Croatian Literary Language, as well as taking over the publishing of the Croatian Encyclopedia.
He was awarded honorary doctorates from Copenhagen University in 2013 and from the University of York in 2019.
Besides his diplomatic duties, Benzing gave courses in Turkic languages at the Turcological Department of the Faculty of Letters (Turkish:Edebiyat Fakültesi) of the University of Istanbul.
Although the academy's business is creating new words from Hebrew roots and structures to replace loanwords derived from other languages, its own name is a loanword, "akademya." It addresses this irony on its English website.
Natural languages Constructed languages Apart from the Akademio de Esperanto, most constructed languages (also called conlangs) have no true linguistic regulators or language academies.
After the Third Republic was declared in 1992, the Academy of Sciences was restructured and given its current name as the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Armenia.
See also LGBT people in science References External links Arnold Zwicky's blog Arnold Zwicky on Stanford Profiles Donated papers at The State Historical Society of Missouri, Research Center- Columbia.
The long term goal of DIAKORP is to create a corpus covering the period of 1850–present and interconnecting the data with the SYN series.
History Different practices for Danish orthography has been in existence since the language started to be written down.
This proceeds either from the use of different prepositions or other words in Compounds; or else because some Languages retain only the simple words, and others know none but the Compounds.
Through such initiatives, it has played a role in connecting grassroots tribal populations with broader legal and institutional frameworks.
The age-stratified variation of the analyzed variables can be seen as an indicator of language change in progress, showing that the centralization of diphthongs on the island is about to decline in younger age groups.
Pedersen's original Nostratic proposal synthesized earlier macrofamilies, some of which, including Indo-Uralic, involved extensive comparison of inflections.
Collin, professor of politics, noted that "Ethnologue has become a standard resource for scholars in the other social sciences: anthropologists, economists, sociologists and, obviously, sociolinguists".
Occasionally also the name 'Tartu–Bloomington–Copenhagen school' has been used, as having succeeded the earlier Tartu–Moscow school.
Sentences with repetitive words or forms can be nearly incomprehensible even when adhering to grammatical rules.
McWhorter, in summarizing the evidence for Scandinavian influence, writes that "the evidence strongly suggests that extensive second-language acquisition by Scandinavians from the eighth century onwards simplified English grammar to a considerable extent".
He was honored with the 2019 Lifetime Achievement Award from the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
The Evolution of Human Languages (EHL) project is a historical-comparative linguistics research project hosted by the Santa Fe Institute.
They also have 15% of their videos subtitled through the organization Amara, formerly known as Universal Subtitles, which is a web-based non-profit project that hosts and allows user-subtitled video to be accessed and created.
Phrasal recursivity This test for lexical integrity highlights how phrasal compounds may appear to be penetrable by syntactic operations, but have in fact been lexicalized.
Chapter VII: Of the Adverb and Interjection Lhuyd describes the formation of adverbs with the particle en or yn before an adjective, corresponding to English '-ly', so for example the adjective fîr 'wise' can become an adverb, en fîr 'wisely'.
The most salient difference is that a translation memory loses the original context, while a bitext retains the original sentence order.
The aim is to accelerate the pace of development of the language by encouraging writers, researchers, etc, and to bring Konkani people from all regions together.
The Department of Grammar focuses on research and description of the grammatical structure of the Czech language, descriptive methodology and corpus linguistics theory and practice.
So when a sentence like that in the diagram below is pronounced, 'John' precedes the V-v-T chain, which in turn precedes 'Mary', the latter being the specifier of V.
In computer science, extended affix grammars (EAGs) are a formal grammar formalism for describing the context free and context sensitive syntax of language, both natural language and programming languages.
The Myanmar Language Commission (Burmese: မြန်မာစာအဖွဲ့; formerly Burmese Language Commission; abbreviated MLC) is the pre-eminent government body on matters pertaining to the Burmese language.
Ogooglebar (from o- prefix (negative prefix) + googlebar (google + -bar suffix (-able))) is a word, in Swedish, that the Language Council of Sweden has been forced to remove from its top 10 list of new words by a claim of brand protection from Google.
Ethnologue estimated that there was over 130,000 Ladino speakers in the world, most of whom living in Israel.
Bibliography A General Rhetoric (1970) Rhétorique de la poésie : lecture linéaire, lecture tabulaire (1977) Collages (1978) Plan d'une rhétorique de l'image (1980) Traité du signe visuel: Pour une rhétorique de l'image (1992) Figuras, conocimiento, cultura.
In a concurrence in part and in the judgment, Justice Thomas Lee wrote to put forth an alternative ground for the majority's holding—interpreting the phrase "custody determination" by using corpus linguistics.
The Cambridge-Cornell corpus is the result of a joint project between Cambridge University Press and Cornell University.
He looked at three tracks of group activity, many different breakpoints that signify changes in the development, and a model for task accomplishment.
It has its head office in the Corn Exchange Building in Belfast, and a regional office in Raphoe, in eastern County Donegal (one of the three counties of the historical province of Ulster in the Republic of Ireland).
This could be attributed to the standard forms of agreement, between rights owners and the Consortium on the one hand, and between corpus users and the Consortium on the other.
As of 2018 the Bendigo campus is situated on 33 ha (82 acres) of land, consisting of four sites—Edwards Road, Osbourne Street, the art centre and the La Trobe Rural Health School.
CODOFIL continues to recruit and sponsor French, Belgian and Canadian associate teachers as per its accords with those countries, who are placed alongside local teachers upon LDOE's recommendation.
Conversations were recorded by the research team, and a crowdsourcing app enabled Welsh speakers in the community to record and upload samples of their own language use to the corpus.
Since 2005, in collaboration with the Quebec-France Association and the Quebecers' National Movement, it awards the Quebec-France Marie-Claire-Blais Literary Prize to a French writer for his or her first work.
Thus, various types of comparative studies and applications in information technology as well as development of often related innovative applications have been possible.
Cambridge Financial English Corpus The Cambridge Financial English Corpus contains texts relating to economics and finance, including leading financial magazines and newspapers.
They are mainly used on other Wikimedia projects, for example to illustrate entries on Wiktionaries or proper nouns in Wikipedia articles.
The TOEFL test was created under his leadership at the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington, DC.
Within the area of corpus linguistics, collocation is defined as a sequence of words or terms which co-occur more often than would be expected by chance.
The Cornish Language Partnership (Cornish: Keskowethyans an Taves Kernewek [kɛskɔˈwɛθjans an ˈtavɛs kɛrˈnɛwɛk], [kɛskɔˈwɛθjɐnz ɐn ˈtævɐz kərˈnuːɐk]) was a representative body that was set up in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom, in 2005 to promote and develop the use of the Cornish language.
In the following sentence, Caesar says the Gauls outside the defences were in confusion, and those inside the defences equally so.
The decision to form the institute came about from a meeting in September 2000, in Miranda do Douro, where a number of persons interested in the language met, also passing the resolution to establish Mirandese under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
It coordinates with the General Commission of Terminology and Neologisms the development of terminology lists by the specialized committees of terminology and the French Academy.
After being placed within the Ministry for Chieftaincy and Religious Affairs, it received fewer contracts from the Ghana Education Service.
Another debate concerns whether the term semantic/discourse prosody only relates to positive/negative meaning (narrow definition) or to more complex attitudinal/functional meaning.
The original version of this article was translated, with adaptations, from the corresponding article on the Spanish-language Wikipedia.
As of 2009, the Academy had 23 regular members, 10 associated members, one permanent member, and 26 honor members.
145, CSLI, ISBN 978-1-57586-401-3 Sag, Ivan A; Wasow, Thomas; Bender, Emily (2003), Syntactic theory : a formal introduction, CSLI lecture notes, no.
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
Input frequencies Collostructional analysis requires frequencies of words and constructions and is similar to a wide variety of collocation statistics.
Diachronic corpus of Czech: the DIAKORP corpus of historical Czech includes texts from 14th century onwards.
In winter 2004 Rhodri Morgan, previous First Minister of Wales, announced his decision to abolish the Welsh Language Board.
Since 2005 HNK 105 million tokens and is composed of number of different subcorpora which can be searched individually and all together in a whole corpus.
Motor neurons In order to speak, the breathing system must be voluntarily repurposed to produce vocal sounds, which allows the breathing mechanisms to be temporarily deactivated in favor of song or speech production.
An acceptability judgment task, also called acceptability rating task, is a common method in empirical linguistics to gather information about the internal grammar of speakers of a language.
The Centre for the Greek Language acts as a coordinating, advisory and strategic organ of the Greek Ministry of Education on matters of language education and policy.
The Languages of Goa Part One: Hindi Edited by Madhavi Sardesai Part Two: English Edited by Madhavi Sardesai 9.
The whole corpus has a searchable tagging concerning lexical semantics (LS), including morphosemantic POS subclasses (proper noun, reflexive pronoun etc.), LS characteristics proper (thematic class, causativity, evaluation), derivation (diminutive, adverb formed from adjective etc.).
Jahrtausends nach Christus, […], begann, soweit die Runeninschriften erkennen lassen, das Nordische sich mit eigenen Neuerungen spürbar vom Westgermanischen abzuheben.
Meanwhile, the Tanganyika African National Union, fighting for freedom from colonial rule, had adopted Kiswahili as a language of mass organization and political revolution.
The first official session of the new corporation was held at the residence of Pacheco on 6 July 1713, an event that is recorded in the book of minutes, begun on 3 August 1713.
Limitations and misappropriates Despite being an excellent source of lexical information, the BNC can only really be used to study a limited set of grammatical patterns, particularly those which have distinctive lexical correlates.
Similar concepts Philosophy Concepts similar to the lexical hypothesis are basic to ordinary language philosophy.
The staff working at CELCT at the time of its closure is continuing their research activities within FBK.
Co-occurrence information and knowledge of co-occurring words may be relevant in analysis of language for the purposes of large language models, part of the emerging field of artificial intelligence, and helpful in word games such as scrabble.
References External links (in Icelandic) The Icelandic Language Institute Webpage Archived 2007-05-07 at the Wayback Machine English version (in Icelandic) Glossary Database English version The Icelandic Language Institute from randburg.com
Comparable variations would be British English, American English, and Indian English, that would be represented through a computer corpus.
Relevance The Eighth Schedule of the Constitution of India recognizes 22 scheduled languages, excluding English, and the linguistic policies and funding of the Indian government are organised around this information.
Sag received a Mellon Fellowship at Stanford University in 1978–79, and remained in California from that point on.
The BNC Sampler is a two-part sub-corpora, a part each for written and spoken data; each part contains one million words.
On May 25, 2017, Andrej Kibrik was elected the director of the Institute of Linguistics by the general meeting of the researchers.
CELCT was established in 2003 by FBK (Fondazione Bruno Kessler) and DFKI (Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Künstliche Intelligenz), and was funded by the Autonomous Province of Trento.
Some language councils are national and tied to a specific state, while councils without association to any country where the language is dominant also exist.
According to Yarowsky, for any sense to be clearly dominant, the occurrences of the target word should not be less than 4.
Academic career Clark earned her PhD in Linguistics in 1969, studying with John Lyons at the University of Edinburgh.
Slovak Language (Slovak: Slovenská reč), a scientific journal devoted to the research of the Slovak language.
The OQLF has been referred to in English as "tongue troopers" The term "language police" was possibly first used by the American television show 60 Minutes, which ran an investigative report on Quebec language laws.
The initial composition was divided in two constituents: 30-million corpus of contemporary Croatian (30m) where samples from texts from 1990 on were included.
Young children's uptake of new words in conversation Clark aimed to understand how children register words they haven't heard before by extracting the words and transcripts from five corpora (collection of written/spoken texts) (2007).
Tagging the corpus enabled far more sophisticated statistical analysis, such as the work programmed by Andrew Mackie, and documented in books on English grammar.
In addition to using and instead of to in order to avoid horror aequi, a strategy is to delay the second to + verb with intervening words.
For each year contained in the corpus (1990–2019), the corpus is evenly divided between six registers/genres: TV/movies, spoken, fiction, magazine, newspaper, and academic (see Texts and Registers page of the COCA website).
Collostructional analysis aims at measuring the degree of attraction or repulsion that words exhibit to constructions, where the notion of construction has so far been that of Goldberg's construction grammar.
After Sergei Starostin's death in 2005, the website has since been run by his son Georgiy Starostin.
Philologies Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship.
Creole Prototype Theory John McWhorter contributed to the LBH with his Creole Prototype Theory, which argues that creoles exhibit some features that may be used to distinguish them from other languages without referring to the socio-historical dimension.
Bucholtz was recognized in 2014 by the Society for Linguistic Anthropology with the Award for Public Outreach and Community Service.
Poole's research and development of this model came from researching why the phasic model did not work.
Organisation The university is divided into seven major faculties which offer approximately 50 undergraduate degree programmes and over 100 graduate programmes.
In order for schools to have teachers for the immersion program, schools must send requests for teachers to CODOFIL first, then CODOFIL select teachers from the list of applicants that fit with the schools' criteria for the immersion program and send them to teach the immersion programs there.
To initiate, assist or undertake publication in Konkani language of original and erudite papers, monographs, books, journal, as also of any other works in any other branch of knowledge.
Since its establishment, it has been operated by notable committees of Arabic language professors, scholars and experts who re-spread the use of Arabic in the state's institutions and daily life of many Arab countries by adapting widely accepted proceedings and records into Arabic.
Promotion of literature Organisation Literary symposium It supplies books to school and college libraries.
Also notable are the different English names of two Welsh towns named Dinbych ('little fort'); Denbigh and Tenby.
In 2003, Charles Reiss argued that feature geometry is insufficiently powerful to account for a class of phonological rules that involve dependencies between segments, such as partial and total identity and nonidentity.
TS Corpus is a Free&Independent Project that aims to build Turkish corpora, NLP tools and linguistic datasets...
For instance, The universal annotation approach for dependency treebanks; and the universal annotation approach for phrase structure treebanks.
Because its activities were organized in this way, and because it had to depend on uncertain sources of funding, the School from the outset had the character of a temporary expedient...
From 1953 until his retirement, on 31 December 1971, he served as cultural adviser in the German agencies in Lisbon, Dublin, Damascus, Bern and at the Holy See.
Foundation and activities BAKITA was founded by a parliamentary act in 1967 as organization dedicated to the development and advocacy of Kiswahili as a means of national integration in Tanzania.
In addition to their theoretical work the staff at the Centre for Lexicography have published more than 30 printed and electronic dictionaries, often in collaboration with external partners.
History The school has been instrumental in developing biosemiotics as a new perspective on the study of life, in the biological and environmental sciences.
In the peripheral areas to the northwest, on the other hand, a model of elite dominance may be the most fitting.
Attention is paid to the problems of linguistic typology and comparative and historical linguistics.
Words like "dawn" and "don" are pronounced similarly; different vowels that are pronounced with the same sound.
Established in 1994 by Government of Karnataka, it is an autonomous organisation functioning from its own building - Tulu Bhawana in Mangalore, Karnataka.
Co-occurrence in this linguistic sense can be interpreted as an indicator of semantic proximity or an idiomatic expression.
Ambartsumian in 2008, honoring the distinguished scientist who had served as the Academy's President for nearly fifty years.
In addition to regional subcorpora, there are subcorpora of works by authors of the Ukrainian diaspora (USA, Canada, Poland, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, etc.).
A corpus manager (corpus browser or corpus query system) is a tool for multilingual corpus analysis, which allows effective searching in corpora.
Activities The organisation carries out various activities for promotion of Odia language and literature.
It took its original name again on November 11, 2005, and again changed its name to its current form in October 2015.
Research Research on Dutch-Japanese studies was both supported and carried out by the institute, and formed the basis for a majority of their publications.
Fiction: (120 million words) Short stories and plays, first chapters of books 1990–present, and movie scripts.
Key activities of CHAKITA are directing research into Kiswahili language and literature in coordination with academic institutions and to develop Kiswahili so that it can be used as a means of national development.
The first six volumes were released at the Bhasha Vasudha Global Languages Conference in Vadodara on January 7, 2012.
The law empowered CODOFIL to "do any and all things necessary to accomplish the development, utilization, and preservation of the French language ...
The organisation was part-funded by the European Union's Objective One programme, the United Kingdom government's Department for Communities and Local Government and Cornwall Council.
Syntactic Parsing The sentence are parsed automatically and, if necessary, are manually corrected with ICECUP, a syntax tree editor created specifically for the corpus.
Contributors include a network of international specialists, with some of these experts responsible for a specific field of linguistics, while others cover the production of their home country.
People Thea Andrews (born 1973), Canadian journalist Thea Astley (1925–2004), Australian writer Thea Beckman (1923–2004), Dutch writer Thea Bock (1938–2025), German politician Thea Bowman (1937–1990), American nun Thea Dorn (born 1970), German writer Thea E.
The two basic categories of Macedonian onomastics are: Toponomastics Anthroponomastics Toponomastics Toponomastics is a branch of the onomastics that studies toponymy, or the names of the places, geographical terms, and their meaning and origin.
After the assimilation of the original Amapá people, the name was applied to immigrants, now known as the Karipuna do Amapá, whose language was not recorded but was reported to be Nheengatu, a Tupian language.
417–420 (http://www.blogg.org/blog-30140-date-2005-10-26.html Archived 2014-01-07 at the Wayback Machine) Burgin, M.
In Ottoman toponymic history a multitude of settlements with köy are attested, such as Boghaz Köy or Ermeni Köy.
Tommie is a masculine given name of English origin, occasionally a nickname or shortened form of Thomas, and is sometimes used as a feminine form of Thomas.
Gus is a masculine name, often a diminutive for Angus, August, Augustine, Gustave, Constantine, Konstantinos, Augusten, Gustavo, Gusten, Augustus, Aengus, Argus, Fergus, Gustav, Gustafson, Ferguson, and Gussie.
The name Eli (Hebrew: עֵלִי‎, Modern: ʿElī, Tiberian: ʿĒlī) also appears to refer to El in English, but contains ayin rather than aleph.
Women with the name Men with the name Nellie Briles (1943–2005), American baseball player Nelly Cruz (born 1980), Dominican-American professional baseball player Nellie Fox (1927–1975), American professional baseball player Nelly, stage name of American rapper Cornell Iral Haynes Jr.
Notable people referred to by this name include the following: See also All pages with titles beginning with Chas All pages with titles containing Chas Chas (disambiguation) Chal (name) Char (name) == References ==
In the edition published by Paul de Lagarde, the Latin work compiled by Jerome is titled slightly differently, Hieronymi de Situ et Nominibus Locorum Hebraicorum Liber ("Jerome's Book on the Location and Names of Hebrew Places").
It may be used a diminutive of any name containing "fred", regardless of origin, as with Freddy Adu and Freddie Benson, both Ghanaians named Fredua.
From this come technical terms such as areology, as well as the (rare) adjective Arean and the star name Antares.
The popular style of book title mark is called type B in Taiwan, while the angle brackets are the only acceptable style in China for modern day use.
It cost some 300 euros to replace each stolen sign, and the costs were reflected in the taxes that local residents paid.
1817), 45th Nizari imam Khalilullah Khalili (1907–1987), Afghan poet Khalil Ullah Khan (1934–2014), Bangladeshi actor Khalilullah (cricketer) (b.
Goralenvolk was a geopolitical term invented by the German Nazis in World War II in reference to the Goral highlander population of Podhale region in the south of Poland near the Slovak border.
Other clubs are more usually known by nicknames or contractions of their full names, for instance, Vasco da Gama is usually called simply Vasco, F.C.
Publication Traditionally, publication of definitive research is undertaken by printing a book or by publishing a one-name periodical.
Notable people with the name include: Gene Men Gene Abel, American psychiatrist and controversial clinician Gene Bradley (born 1957), American football player Gene A.
"Значение древнерусской ономастики для истории: к этимологии топонима Киев" [The significance of Old Russian onomastics for history: on the etymology of the toponym Kiev].
Dyvoet Deeford, exists in England as place and as a surname not to be confused with the village of Desford in Leicestershire.
Although Geert is a name in its own right, it is often the given name of persons who are formally called Gerard or Gerardus.
Names from classical antiquity such as Sophonisba were in greater use among some prominent families in the Southern United States during the 1700s and 1800s than they were elsewhere.
Richie Richard, from Bottom Richie Ryan, from Highlander Richie Tozier, from romance It Richie Underwood, from Dog House See also Ritchie (given name), includes a list of people with given name or surname Ritchie Ritchie (surname), includes a list of people with surname Ritchie Rishi (given name)
Jock, a fictional steam locomotive from The Railway Series book Jock the New Engine by Christopher Awdry See also Joc Pederson (born 1992), American Major League Baseball player All pages with titles beginning with Jock All pages with titles containing Jock
1, 2, Yekaterinburg, 2001), the fundamental Onomatology (Moscow, 2006) and many popular books about language for non-linguists.
Thus the late Archbishop Benson noted in his diary her "odd majesty and kindliness, which are very strong." But it is of course as a writer that Miss Yonge will be remembered.
Gligvi (Georgian: ღლიღვი, romanized: ghlighvi) is a medieval ethnonym used in Georgian, Russian and Western European sources in the 11-19 centuries.
From 1971 to 1981 he was a junior researcher in the toponymy group, and from 1976 to 1981 a senior researcher in the toponymy group of the dialect section.
Renee Fosset notes that Gustav Holm of the 1880s Danish polar expedition recorded east Greenlanders as describing Akilineq as a land far to the east, which by evidence Holm took to refer to Iceland.
It may also be the short form of other Italian names like Ambrogino or Luigino or Eugenio, which are from the Ancient Greek name Ambrosios (ἀμβρόσιος), which means "ever-living", and/or Eugenios (εὐγένιος), which means "well-born, noble".
The force was composed mainly of First World War British Army veterans, who wore distinctive Khaki British Army uniforms with dark RIC overcoats.
the Aśvaka or Aśvakayana, the name of the Aśvakan or Assakan, the ancient inhabitants of the Hindu Kush region.
The "Basic Annals of Xiang Yu" chapter in the book is about how Xiang Yu trusts his old-day relatives instead of his advisor Fan Zeng which leads to his defeat.
Usage Activists often portray Juan dela Cruz as a victim of American imperialism, especially since many editorial cartoons of the American period often depicted him alongside Uncle Sam either as a "Little Brown Brother" or as an Asian Partner.
Related terms have existed outside the French-speaking world: Godames was historically used in Brazil, while Gotama was used in East Africa.
Drower had interpreted it in reference to Zahreil, but arguing that Zahreil never left the World of Darkness.
Variants of the name include Ramesses (Ramessu) and Paramessu; these various spellings could be used to refer to the same person.
Representative from Pennsylvania Bob Ehrlich (born 1957), former governor of Maryland Bob Etheridge (born 1941), former U.S.
They intended to seek shelter with their allies the Crow but, upon the Crow's refusal to offer help, the Nez Perce tried to reach the camp in Canada of Lakota Chief Sitting Bull.
krakowskiego, 1967 Patronimiczne nazwy miejscowe w Małopolsce,1971 Słowotwórstwo polskich patronimicznych nazw miejscowych z przyrostkiem (ov)itjo- na tle zachodniosłowiańskim, 1973 Hydronimia dorzecza Orawy (together with M.
United States While the long titles of most acts of the US Congress read, "An Act to...", appropriations bills begin, "An Act making appropriations for...".
Michael, American political operative Molly Miller, American women's college basketball coach Molly Molloy (1940–2016), American dancer, choreographer, and teacher Molly Moore (disambiguation), several people Molly Morgan (c.
39.553°N 78.260°W﻿ / 39.553; -78.260, which has been re-designated by GNIS as Unnamed Lake on Tr-Sleepy Creek Dam.
Gloucester (1817–1883), American businesswoman Elisabeth Götze (born 1966), member of the National Council of Austria Elisabeth Grieg (born 1959), Norwegian businessperson Elizabeth Grierson (c.
The belief is that by following the Rectification of Names, one would be following the correct/right path.
Notable people with the name include: Hedy Bienenfeld (1907–1976), Austrian-American Olympic swimmer Hedy Burress (born c.
Laitman (1924–2020), American art collector and philanthropist Nanette Lepore (born 1964), American fashion designer Nanette S.
Preston, a prominent LDS Church authority who was an early settler of Cache Valley." Ramah* Ramah, New Mexico named after Cumorah also known as Ramah in the Book of Mormon.
Axiomatic definition Similar to set theory, named sets have axiomatic representations, i.e., they are defined by systems of axioms and studied in axiomatic named set theory.
In late 2016, the TGA changed several drug names to the corresponding international nonproprietary name (INN), or, in cases where an INN was not available (as with asparaginase), another established generic name, such as the United States Adopted Name (USAN).
To the Proto-Slavic singular form are closest Old Russian xorvaty (*xъrvaty) and German-Lusatian Curuuadi from 11th and 12th century sources, while the old plural form *Xъrvate is correctly reflected in Old Russian Xrovate, Xrvate, Church Slavonic xarьvate and Old Croatian Hrvate.
For their long attention he has left them a handsome legacy, and relatives and friends are not forgotten among the numerous legacies he left, his property being about 10,000l.
Taboos Edmund Leach argued in a classic 1964 paper that animal epithets are insulting when the animal in question is taboo, making its name suitable for use as an obscenity.
The name was among the 1,000 most popular names for girls born in the United States at different times between 1880 and 1935.
By the 12th century, Medieval Europeans used the term Saracen as both an ethnic and religious marker.
Ernie is a masculine given name, frequently a short form (hypocorism) of Ernest, Ernald, Ernesto, or Verner.
Women Zuleika "Zuzu" Angel (1921–1976), Brazilian fashion designer Züleyxa "Zuzu" Izmailova (born 1985), Estonian-Azerbaijani journalist, environmental activist and politician Zuzu Zakaria, Norwegian-Azerbaijani singer and producer (born c.
More often today, the Austuriani are recognized as the product of local social transformation, given the association of the name with the same space over two centuries.
Historical figures and derived uses Herodians There were three princes by the name Phasael in the Herodian dynasty: Phasael I (died 40 BCE), the elder brother of Herod the Great; Phasael II, his son; and Phasael III, a son of Herod the Great and father of Cypros, wife of Agrippa I.
References External links Media related to Cosmographia at Wikimedia Commons Waldseemüller's map at the Library of Congress (includes downloadable digital image) Digital reconstruction of Waldseemüller's globe, 1507-2007 (animation)
Despite its popularity in informal usage, the name is rarely recorded on birth certificates in countries such as Belarus, the Czech Republic, Russia, Slovakia, and Ukraine, as it is considered a diminutive, not a formal name.
The name was rendered in many different spellings in Greek, in the masculin form mainly as Φασάηλος, Phasaelos, which in Latin became Phasaelus.
Kazimierz Rymut (18 December 1935 in Chechły near Ropczyce - 14 November 2006, Kraków) was a Polish linguist, onomastician.
It is a loanword from Persian gūy (or probably more likely kūy), which originally means "path, street".
Selected works Since 1933, Beneš published articles about Czech surnames in specialised journals (as Naše řeč or Zpravodaj místopisné komise ČSAV, ZMK).
The Scandinavian version compares the name with the Swedish: sambåd, a term which in medieval Sweden designated a place for gathering tribute for the leidang, a naval military expedition.
Morse (1791–1872), the Irish writer Samuel Beckett (1906–89) and the American author Samuel Clemens (1835–1910), who wrote under the pen name Mark Twain.
See also List of language names References Sources External links Coby Lubliner (2006): Adventures in Glossonymy
Florrie is also a nickname for Florence or Flora and may refer to: People Florrie Burke (1918–1995), Irish footballer Florrie R.
The term is also used in this sense by the Black Female Professors Forum, a primarily-online informal network for highlighting both the presence and absence of senior women professors who are not white.
With Ruff Ruffman Chet, from Total Drama Presents: The Ridonculous Race Chet "The Rocket" Steadman, from the film Rookie of the Year Chester "Chet" Desmond, from Fire Walk with Me Chet Kaminski, from Ash vs Evil Dead Chet Shaft, from Scott the Woz Chet, from Fallout: New Vegas Dr.
In 1860, very few buffalo were left, and the Niitsitapi became completely dependent on government supplies.
Evgeny Krupnov, Adrienne Mayor) connect the ethnonym to either Gargareans or to Gelae (Ivane Javakhishvili, Arnold Chikobava).
The meaning of köy within the concept of an open village contrasts with that of the word kasaba, which refers to a small town.
Tepperman, in the 1982–1983 sitcom Square Pegs Muffy Mouse, in the 1980s Canadian children's television series Today's Special Muffy, in the 1986 horror film April Fool's Day Muffy St.
A common suggestion, first presented by Jouko Vahtola, is that kven etymologically originates from Old Norse hvein, meaning "swampy land." Nevertheless, kven is a root which in some cases translates to "woman" in Old Norse.
Black, Asian and minority ethnic, a similar contested grouping in the UK Global majority, an umbrella term in the UK that has grown in popularity since the 2010s.
It is a combination of Dora with the suffix -een, which is related to the -ín suffix used in Irish, usually signifying small size or as an endearment.
1967–2015), a commander of the Provisional IRA from Northern Ireland Richard Jock Kinneir (1917–1994), British typographer and graphic designer who, with Margaret Calvert, designed many of the road signs used throughout the United Kingdom Jock D.
In Ezra 10:26 Abdi is the son of Elam, and one of a long list of men who had married foreign wives, and who then sent them away together with their children.
Flanders Wallonia Brussels See also Names of Belarusian places in other languages Names of Lithuanian places in other languages
The main reason for the SDA to adopt the Bosniak identity, only three years after expelling the supporters of the idea from their party ranks, was due to foreign policy considerations.
Zack (and variant spellings Zach, Zac, Zak, Zakk) is sometimes a given name, but more often it is a hypocorism or short form of another given name, usually Zachary in the English speaking world, which derives from Zechariah.
Historian Clifford Edmund Bosworth defines "Afghan" primarily as a historical ethnonym for the Pashtun people.
Use in Britain "Brown" has become an increasingly common identity for individuals of South Asian and Horn African heritage, mainly due to American and Canadian influence.
Devoted to the High church, she was much influenced by John Keble, Vicar of Hursley from 1835, a near neighbour and one of the leaders of the Oxford Movement.
Dash or DASH may also refer to: Brands and enterprises Dash (boutique), a boutique clothing and accessory chain Dash (detergent) Amazon Dash, a consumer goods ordering service from Amazon.com DoorDash, an online food ordering and delivery company which trades on the Nasdaq as DASH Mrs.
Fox Walt Lloyd, on the television series Lost Walt Longmire, on the television series Longmire Walt Stone, from the series The Kane Chronicles Walt Wallet, in the newspaper comic strip Gasoline Alley See also Van der Walt, a list of people with the surname
His study of this material revealed a great number of substrate phenomena from Uralic languages and extended our knowledge of the formal and semantical development of toponyms as well as of the ancient state of the Uralic languages.
Elizabeth became popularised during the late medieval period as a given name, mostly influenced by two saints: St.
Baz is a surname, given name and nickname, often a short form (hypocorism) of Basil or Barry in English.
14th century) Fyodor Rostislavich, also known as Duke Theodore Rostislavich, Fyodor the Black or Fyodor Chermny (c.1230s – d.
Delaplane (died 1900), American politician Theodore Delevoryas (1929–2017), American paleobotanist Theodore Dieckmann (1853–1919), American politician and businessman Theodore C.
Many individuals have much more fanciful signatures than their normal cursive writing, including elaborate ascenders, descenders and exotic flourishes, much as one would find in calligraphic writing.
Until the time of Muhammad, the deported Children of Israel of the east continually increased in number in the countries around Ghor which included Kabul, Kandahar and Ghazni and made wars with the infidels around them.
Currently, the USAN Council has five members, one from each sponsoring organization, one from the FDA, and a member-at-large.
Scott (1879–1965), British painter, illustrator and comics artist Sep Smith (1912–2006), English footballer Sep Vanmarcke (born 1988), Belgian road racing cyclist Sep Visser (born 1990), Dutch international rugby union player
Some government agencies require that professional persons or official reviewers sign originals and all copies of originals to authenticate that they personally viewed the content.
The feminine placeholder is usually María dela Cruz, which like Juan is a common first name among Filipino women, though Juana dela Cruz is currently gaining popularity in Philippine television and especially in political campaigns by President Bongbong Marcos.
Qais had three sons, Sarban, Bettan and Ghourghusht, who are progenitors of the various Pashtun tribes.
In Arabic pronunciation, "Judie" is rendered as "جودي" (pronounced Jūdī), which may phonetically resemble the Arabic word "كرمى" (karamī), meaning "my generosity." However, the two terms are unrelated etymologically.
Chairman of the Board of the Guild of Linguistic Experts on Documentation and Information Disputes (2001).
Rod is a common diminutive (hypocorism) of various masculine given names, including Rodney, Roderick, Rodford and Rodion.
Therefore, it is highly desirable to the pharmaceutical company, the various nomenclature committees, and the medical community in general that a global name be established for each new single-entity compound introduced.
Mattson (1927–1998), American chemist and journalist Howard Metzenbaum (1917–2008) American politician and businessman Howard Morris (1919–2005), American actor, comedian, and director Howard T.
Early life and education Jaak Simm was born in Tartu, Estonia, the son of Elmar Simm (1904–1972) and Õie Simm (née Tillmann, 1912–2002).
Ptolemy's 2nd-century work, Geography, describes Sarakēnḗ (Ancient Greek: Σαρακηνή) as a region in the northern Sinai Peninsula.
It is thus related to many other feminine given names, including Dorian, Dorinda, Theodora and Isidora.
McMahan (1924–2009), American entomologist Elizabeth Midlarsky (died 2023), American psychologist Elizabeth Murchison, British-Australian geneticist Elizabeth Ann Nalley (born 1942), American chemist Elizabeth Nance, American chemical engineer Elizabeth F.
Getzoff, American biochemist Elisabeth Giacobino (born 1946), French physicist Elisabeth Gidengil, Canadian political scientist Elizabeth V.
Mikhail Viktorovich Gorbanevsky (Russian: Михаи́л Ви́кторович Горбане́вский; 21 May 1953 – 20 September 2025) was a Soviet and Russian linguist.
Its usage probably dates back to the foundation of Wallachia, though it spread to Moldavia only in the 15th century.
Tharu women of central and eastern Nepal celebrate Jitiya, which is one of the most important Tharu festivals.
Cretz (born 1950), American politician Gene Davidson (1896–1960), American football and baseball player Gene Englund (1917–1995), American professional basketball player Gene F.
Variant name is a term used to specify the name of a geographic feature that is not the primary name used for that feature.
The term was also used to refer to one or several trading sites where the Inuit and neighbouring peoples would meet, by the Akilineq Hills at the mouth of the Thelon River, or on the north shores of Lake Aberdeen.
The Austuriani or Austoriani were a Berber people who lived along the frontier of the Roman Empire in Africa.
Dooley, American government official Eliza Doolittle (singer) (born 1988 as Eliza Sophie Caird), British singer Eliza Douglas, American painter Eliza Draper (1744–1778), British writer Eliza T.
Amenirdis (or Amonardis; masculine ỉmn-ỉr-dỉ-sw – Amenirdisu, feminine ỉmn-ỉr-dỉ-st – Amenirdiset; gendered endings were mostly not pronounced by the time the name was popular) is an ancient Egyptian name meaning "he/she was given by Amun".
Kézai wrote that the Vlachs gave script to the Székelys, but the reality is different, because Kézai wrote about the Székelys runs, and his opinion was based on the observation that the Vlach shepherds engraved symbols while counting their sheep.
A-Train (comics) / Reggie Franklin, a superhero in the television franchise The Boys Regina "Reggie" Lampert, in the 1963 film Charade, played by Audrey Hepburn Reggie Mantle, in the Archie comics Reggie Montgomery, from the soap opera All My Children Reggie Pepper, in seven short stories by P.
It became a loanword in other South Asian languages to give similar means, such as in Tamil in which the word is maidhanam.
Non-rigid designators are defined by contrast with Kripke's notion of a rigid designator, which picks out the same thing uniquely in every possible world; while there are possible worlds in which the 43rd President of the United States is Al Gore instead of George W.
In North America and Australia (where approximately 70 per cent of native English speakers reside), soccer is the primary term.
Negrito (or Semang), generally located in the northern portion of the peninsula, were short dark-skinned nomadic hunter-gatherers with Asiatic facial features and tightly curly hair.
Zenobius in Latin, Zanobi in Italian, Zinobi/Zinobiy (Зенобий) in Bulgarian, Zinovi/Zinoviy in Russian (as well as the surname Zinovyev), and Zenob in Armenian, derive from it.
"Jodie", a song by Saves the Day from the album Can't Slow Down (1998) "Jodie", a song by SZA from the 2022 deluxe edition of the album Ctrl (2017) See also Jodee Nimerichter, American arts administrator
The feminine Veronica is derived from a form of Berenice, which is derived from the Greek Berenikē and Pherenīkē and means "victory bringer".
1st century BC), princess from the Kingdom of Pontus and through marriage a Roman client queen of Cappadocia Athenais of Media Atropatene (fl.
Count Fritz von Tarlenheim, in Anthony Hope's novel The Prisoner of Zenda, its sequel, Rupert of Hentzau, and various film adaptations.
Erich Klostermann published a scholarly eclectic edition of the manuscript in 1904, using in addition four other manuscripts.
Because of the British origin of the modern game and the prevalence of the English language, many clubs, even outside Europe, have their names written in English.
In many countries, signatures must be made, witnessed and recorded in the presence of a notary public to carry legal force in specific contexts.
Since 1993 no one in Sweden has been baptised as Gert according to the Swedish Bureau of Census, so the name is becoming increasingly rare.
2007–2009), Deputy Minister of Interior for Counter-Narcotics and former Governor of Badakhshan, Afghanistan Baz Bamigboye, British journalist Baz Muhammad Khan (fl.
It is often short for Mildred, Amelia, Emily, Millicent, Camilla, Camila, Camille, Camile, Emilia, etc.
Israelite presence in Canaan was also established before Joshua's conquests according to a few biblical traditions.
Eleazar (Hebrew: אלעזר or Elazar, meaning "God has helped", el'azár) is a common Jewish masculine given name.
It is also the English name for the female of several species of animal, including the deer and the rabbit, derived from the Old English dā, related to dēon ("to suck").
Camulodunum (Latin), now Colchester, Essex - from *kamulos 'Camulus' (divine name) + Celtic *dūnon 'fortress' Catterick, North Riding of Yorks., *catu ("battle") + *ratis ("rampart") + onjon (suffix).
However it is not now known which river they explored, so Willems River cannot be placed on a present-day map.
Spanish/Caló The word passed from Caló to Spanish slang as gachó (masculine) / gachí (feminine), acquiring the generalized meaning "man, guy" / "woman, girl".
Italo-Normans were the primary Norman mercenaries in the employ of the Byzantine emperors, and many found service in Rome under the pope.
(1944–2012), American attorney and politician Louie Kelcher (born 1953), American former National Football League player Louie E.
During a visit of Nazi Governor-General Hans Frank to Podhale on 7 November 1939 they proposed to establish a separate state for Goralenvolk.
The various forms are based on the Greek (Ραμεσσυς: Ramessus), Latin (Ramesses), or Hebrew (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) forms of the name, all ultimately based on the Ancient Egyptian form: rˁ-ms-sw (𓅭𓇳) "Ra [is] the one who gave birth [to] him".
It may refer to: People Tad Boyle (born 1963), University of Colorado men's basketball head coach and former player Tad Crawford (born 1984), Canadian Football League player Tad Devine (born 1955), American political consultant Tad Dorgan (1877–1929), American cartoonist Edward T.
Among those that are included in this small group, several can be shown to be derivations of Gaelic personal names or surnames.
A United States Adopted Name (USAN) is a unique nonproprietary name assigned to a medication marketed in the United States.
Horrie is a masculine given name, typically used in Australia as a hypocorism (pet name) for Horace, as well as a surname.
It may refer to: Sepandar Kamvar (born 1977), American computer scientist, artist, author and entrepreneur Sep Lambert (1876–1959), Irish cricketer Sep Ledger (1889–1917), South African rugby union player Sep Ruf (1908–1982), German architect and designer Sep E.
Some of those attempts were made as a result of misunderstanding, by referencing to official UNESCO documents, that used those terms in their proper meaning, as designations for language names, thus revealing the lack of bases for the proposed alternative uses.
He passed away peacefully, unnoticed and unknown, in the house in which he had lodged for some years, No.
(2005) A Unified Approach to Data Representation, in Proceedings of the 2005 International Conference on Foundations of Computer Science, CSREA Press, Las Vegas, pp.
He was a full member of the Russian Geographical Society (1977) and an Academician of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (2007).
1725), also known as January Conny, European name given to an Ahanta chief from Axim, Ghana Robert Conny (1646?–1713), English physician See also Socker-Conny, a comic book character created by Joakim Pirinen Connie (disambiguation)
1931), Swiss figure skater Fictional characters Susy Hendrix, blind character played by Audrey Hepburn in Wait Until Dark (film) See also Susie (disambiguation) Susi (disambiguation) Sussy (disambiguation) Suzi (disambiguation) Suzie (disambiguation) Suzy (disambiguation)
Internazionale Milan is contracted to Inter or Inter Milan, Sporting Clube de Portugal is often called Sporting.
Notable people with the name include: Denis of Paris (3rd century), French bishop and Christian martyr Denis (bishop of Győr) (13th century), Hungarian prelate Denis, son of Ampud (died 1236), Hungarian baron Denis the Carthusian (1402-1471), Roman Catholic theologian and mystic Denis of Hungary (c.
The Hungarian people, most valiant and most powerful in the tasks of war thus originated, as we said above, from the Scythian people that is called in its own language Dentumoger.
Exceptions are Croatia, Germany, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Switzerland.
See also Fritz, a chess program Frits, another given name Frit, a ceramic composition == References ==
a proper name (proprium nomen), a demonstrative pronoun (pronomen demonstrativum) or a demonstrative pronoun with a common name (cum termino communi).
His studies include general and Russian onomastics, toponymy and lexicology, forensic linguistic expertise, Slavic studies and speech culture, Russian language in computer technologies.
Its new name was criticized by historian Johanes Christiono, due to the lack of national or local laws or regulations regarding renaming of cultural heritage objects.
1997–present), American music editor and composer Micha Lindenstrauss (1937–2019), Israeli judge and State Comptroller of Israel between 2005 and 2012 Micha Marah (born 1953), Belgian singer and actress Micha Østergaard (born 1987), Danish former swimmer Micha Peled (fl.
The above methods can be combined, hierarchically or singly, to create other generation schemes which guarantee uniqueness.
Amy Alden, the main character and 13-year-old daughter of Aliane and Tom Alden in the film Fly Away Home.
It may come comes from a combination of two words: from the Old Armenian word ալավ (alav) meaning flame, fire[1], and from the Old Armenian երդ (erd) meaning roof, figuratively meaning house, family.
Geert is a Dutch given name of Germanic origin, equivalent to the German Gerd and the English Gerry.
Wodehouse Reggie Perrin, the main character in The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin novel and 1970s television series, as well as the 2000s Reggie Perrin television series Reggie, a character from the adult swim series based on the 2015 web series The Jellies!
The term often connotes an attempt to impress others; it is usually regarded negatively, and under certain circumstances may constitute a breach of professional ethics.
Tools While most one-name studies are conducted as a pastime, rather than as an economic activity, the sheer volume of information to be organised may require semi-professional data-processing and publishing skills.
The book includes the reason for using the name America in the wall map and the globe, and contains a Latin translation of the four journeys of Amerigo Vespucci as an appendix.
A tribal name is a name of an ethnic tribe —usually of ancient origin, which represented its self-identity.
See also Wili (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Wili Willi, a given name Willye, given name William (name) Willies (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Willies All pages with titles containing willie All pages with titles containing Willy
Biblical variants include Yehonathan, Y'honathan, Yhonathan, Yonathan, Yehonatan, Yonatan, Yonaton, Yonoson, Yeonoson or Yehonasan.
Habibullah (Arabic: حَبِيْبَُ ٱلله) also spelled Habib Ullah, Habibollah, Habeeb-Allah, is a male Muslim given name meaning in Beloved of God, stemming from the male form of the name Habib.
Sometimes, the term ecodomonym (from Ancient Greek: δόμος, domos) is used to refer specifically to a building as an inhabited place.
Distribution of Orang Asli tribes by state: According to the 2006 census, the number of Orang Asli was 141,230.
The name of the GTP railway station usually became the name of the town that developed in close proximity to it.
In this context, the "speaker" assumes the role of a "panicking Jew" who reacts to an event that would reveal Jewish "manipulations" or Jewish "deceitfulness".
Despite the hostilities, the Blackfoot stayed largely out of the Great Plains Indian Wars, neither fighting against nor scouting for the United States Army.
First element from Celtic *windo- 'white' (Welsh gwyn); in Vindolanda, Celtic *landā 'land, place' (Welsh llan).
This leads up to the lion simile at the end of the Odyssey, where in Book 22 Odysseus kills all Penelope's suitors.
Jonathan (Hebrew: יְהוֹנָתָן/יוֹנָתָן‎, Standard: Yehōnatan/Yōnatan, Tiberian: Yŏhōnāṯān/Yōnāṯān) is a common name given to males which means "YHWH has given" in Hebrew.
Mohism and Legalism Because the rectification of names in the Analects of Confucius appears to have been written later, the rectification of names has been argued in western sinology to have earlier have originated in Mozi (470–391 BC).
1986) See also All pages with titles beginning with Amedeo for people with the first name Amedeo All pages with titles beginning with Amédéo for people with the first name Amédéo Amadea (disambiguation) Amadee (disambiguation) Amadeo (disambiguation) Amadeus (disambiguation) Amédée (disambiguation)
Likewise, in Cyder, Ambrose Philips refers to Milton as "that other bard" and contrasts Milton to his character Abdiel.
It may refer to: People Fictional characters See also All pages with titles containing Chuck Chucky (name) Chucky (disambiguation) Chuckles (disambiguation) Charlie (disambiguation) Charley (disambiguation) Charles (disambiguation) Chuckii Booker Chuckey Charles
Later uses Crusades and later uses in the Levant In the eastern Mediterranean during the Crusades, the term Franks served as an all-inclusive designation for all Western Europeans, applied not only to the crusaders themselves but also for their descendants, who formed the ruling population.
The adjectival form of Latin Mars is Martius, from which the English word Martian derives, used as an adjective or for a putative inhabitant of Mars, and Martial, used as an adjective corresponding to Terrestrial for Earth.
Fedir (Ukrainian: Федір FEHD-ihr) is a masculine Ukrainian name meaning "gift of God" or "God-given" derived from the Ancient Greek name Theodoros.
In the East African Bantu languages mzungu has come to mean any white European but more often than not especially the British or English, due to their prior presence in the region.
The map consists of twelve sections printed from woodcuts combined with metal types, each measuring 18 x 24.5 inches (46 x 62 cm).
1990–present), Irish Gaelic football coach and former player Dessie Finnegan, 21st century Gaelic footballer Dessie Glynn (1928–2017), Irish footballer Dessie Gorman (born 1964), Irish former footballer Dessie Grew (1953–1990), member of the Provisional Irish Republican Army Dessie Hughes (c.
Manny is a given name or common nickname for the given names Manuel, Manuela, Herman, Norman, Manfred, and others.
Their main political party, the Party of Democratic Action, rejected the idea of Bosniak identity and managed to expel those who promoted it.
This was later reduced to 12, and program delays and technical problems pushed the first launch from 2006 to 2010.
At each candidate user position, the predicted satellite visibility is matched with the real observations.
Although often used to form hybrid spread-spectrum (SS) systems, TH is strictly speaking a non-SS technique.
Lone Worker and Field Staff Safety: Employers, including humanitarian aid organizations, use these devices to monitor and protect employees who work in remote, isolated, or high-risk environments.
"When the Virtual and Real Worlds Collide: Beginning to Address the Clash Between Real Property Rights and Augmented Reality Location-Based Technologies Through a Federal Do-Not-Locate Registry".
These providers also study business processes within the supply chain and help optimize each process.
However, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas transponders cannot be used on any tolled roads maintained by the Central Florida Expressway Authority.
By fixing a special marker with designs that result in moiré patterns, a camera can infer the pose of the marker and the object to which it is attached.
Specifications The phone is capable of receiving signals of two Global Navigation Satellite Systems: GLONASS and GPS.
To do this, it captures the P(Y) signal that is broadcast on two frequencies, L1 and L2, and compares the effects of the ionosphere on the propagation time of the two.
The Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) is used by devices equipped and used in North America—the accuracy is considered to be within 3 m at least 95% of the time.
If the bill is not paid within 30 days from the date of the bill, it may escalate to include fees, civil penalties, DMV registration holds, submission to a collection agency, or all of the above.
The path that a vessel follows is called a track or, in the case of aircraft, ground track (also known as course made good or course over the ground).
Accuracy of these systems depends on if the site has a base station that can relay site specific corrections.
Hard tags, typically used for clothing or ink tags, known as benefit denial tags, may reduce the rate of tag manipulation.
Details To achieve LPI, the transmission time is changed randomly by varying the period and duty cycle of the pulse (carrier) using a pseudo-random sequence.
In addition to the OEM built-in options, selected Freightliner trucks offer a pre-wired option that makes it simpler to add the required hardware for tracking trucks.
Pointr are also supported by Level 39 (the Fintech Accelerator programme for Canary Wharf Group) and have installed their technology there to locate colleagues and assist new users navigating the venue.
Besides toll rings, road tolls are installed to finance certain road projects, and often also on the existing road to discourage people from using it.
For example, if the preferences of a user are encoded in the query string of a URL and the user sends this URL to another user by e-mail, those preferences will be used for that other user as well.
For example, to create a pulse of about 1 ns duration, roughly sufficient to identify location to within 0.3 m (1 foot), a bandwidth of roughly 1 GHz is required.
Technology Wikiloc runs on Linux, with a PostgreSQL database manager with PostGIS for geography support, Apache software, Hibernate, GEOS, GDAL, PROJ.4, and with some Python for preprocess and maintenance.
The company launched its SkyTerra 1 satellite from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on November 14, 2010.
The Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II is built with the equivalent of the Sniper XR in its onboard sensors called the AN/AAQ-40 Electro-Optical Targeting System (EOTS).
In 2007, four United States Army Apache helicopters were destroyed on the ground by Iraqi insurgent mortar fire; the insurgents had made use of embedded coordinates in web-published photographs (geotagging) taken of the helicopters by soldiers.
On February 14, 2012, the FCC initiated proceedings to vacate LightSquared's Conditional Waiver Order based on the NTIA's conclusion that there was currently no practical way to mitigate potential GPS interference.
Membership is managed through a sponsorship system, and each cache is under continual peer review from other members.
gpsd supports interfacing with the Network Time Protocol (NTP) server ntpd via shared memory to enable setting the host platform's time via the GPS clock.
In February 2021, Post-IDFA alliance surveyed 600 customers and noted that 38.5% of them said they plan to allow tracking by tapping "yes" in the App Tracking Transparency prompt.
With the advent of Google Maps and the proliferation of wireless data services from Sprint and AT&T, Hunter founded US Fleet Tracking in 2005.
The Chirp stores hints, multicache coordinates, counts visitors, and can confirm the cache is nearby.
Authors gpsd was originally written by Remco Treffkorn with Derrick Brashear, then maintained by Russell Nelson.
Northbound, the toll road begins just before Orewa and ends via a pair of road tunnels through the Johnstone Hills near Puhoi.
The sampling interval, which is the inverse of the sampling rate, in meters per sample, must be ≤ λ 2 {\displaystyle \leq {\frac {\lambda }{2}}} .
They could also drive on GPS until their vehicles were out of fuel, mired, or disabled; succumbed to hazardous climate or weather conditions, or become lost.
On January 13, 2026 the company announced they are targeting $6 Billion valuation in their pending IPO.
Isuzu Motors America discontinued the sale of passenger vehicles in the United States on January 31, 2009.
A survey reported in 2004 of GPS tracking of motorists visiting the Acadia National Park in Maine, United States was assisted by use of Topofusion to review the scenes visited.
Causes There are multiple reasons why people following GPS directions have become lost, been injured, or died.
In June 2009, Research in Motion has acquired Dash Navigation, and discontinued service and support of the Dash Express product effective June 30, 2010.
The Interagency GPS Executive Board (IGEB) was an agency of the United States federal government that sought to integrate the needs and desires of various governmental agencies into formal Global Positioning System Planning.
While examining possibly related events of weather-related loss of ADIRS, the NTSB decided to investigate two similar cases on cruising A330s.
The company was founded by Ken Schmier, Bryce Nesbitt and Paul Freda in 1997 in Emeryville, California with U.S.
The program requires 10 semesters of full-time studies, after which students receive the professional title of Ingeniero(a) Telemático(a).
Volume multiplexing and Clip Mechanism If a network is composed of many Controllers and a large number of Responders, the Controllers' requests are synchronized as well as Responders' responses (the "Clip" mechanism).
Several city and state officials attended the center’s grand opening, including Missouri Governor Mike Kehoe.
Match Analysis records and verifies over 2,500 distinct events per football match with every touch by every player catalogued, synchronized against video feeds, and stored in a searchable video database.
Active aircraft tracking There are several active aircraft tracking systems available on the market that use the "bread-crumb approach" to SAR.
More importantly, there are effects that might cause the GPS system to become unusable over wide areas, notably space weather events and potential EMP events.
Though one of the cheapest and easiest methods to implement, its disadvantage is that it does not provide very good precision (median of 2–4m), because the RSSI measurements tend to fluctuate according to changes in the environment or multipath fading.
This only works for continuous, narrow-band waveforms because of the relation between phase θ {\displaystyle \theta } , frequency f {\displaystyle f} and time T {\displaystyle T} : θ = 2 π f ⋅ T .
GNSS satellite signals have been shown to be vulnerable due to the signals' being relatively weak on Earth's surface.
Unlike some geo-referencing applications, the NavPix Library writes the georeference values to the image itself via the Exif meta data.
The service is opt-out, meaning it will be enabled on client applications without the user's consent unless disabled.
On 10 December 2003, the second generation satellite design, GLONASS-M, was launched for the first time.
Manufacturing continued to ramp up as the decade came to a close, and by the mid-1950s, Furuno was producing various Marine supplements, such as early examples of commercial Marine radars.
International regulation The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) defines a radionavigation-satellite service (RNSS) as "a radiodetermination-satellite service used for the purpose of radionavigation.
The watch can have other features and capabilities depending on its intended purpose and be a smartwatch.
Post-mission data processing is performed to further refine the results, with two-dimensional positioning accuracies of 1 to 2 meters and impact timing accuracies of 1-2 milliseconds demonstrated.
Driveway Software is a telematics company that provides a smartphone-based platform for the usage-based insurance (UBI) industry.
Pointr have created a GPS-like experience with true position and turn-by-turn navigation that is supported by most modern smartphones operating on both Android and iOS.
Based on these findings, researchers who had been tracking click data realized there might be more to learn from the mouse.
This makes it relatively unappealing for applications such as fleet tracking, where centimeter-scale precision is generally not worth the extra complexity, and more useful in areas like robotics, where there may already be an assumption of onboard processing power and frequent data transfer.
The WGS 84 meridian of zero longitude is the IERS Reference Meridian, 5.3 arc seconds or 102 metres (335 ft) east of the Greenwich meridian at the latitude of the Royal Observatory.
Some scientific questions that addressed by the EarthScope project and the PBO data include: How does accumulated strain lead to earthquakes?
This technology is the foundation for a wide range of applications, from consumer services for finding lost or stolen devices to enterprise platforms for fleet management and employee monitoring.
It was established by Presidential Directive in 2004 and supersedes the Interagency GPS Executive Board.
Differing from iBeacon, Google beacons use not only Bluetooth but also WiFi and near ultrasonic sounds to communicate between devices.
A Notice Advisory to Navstar Users (NANU) is a message issued jointly by the United States Coast Guard and the GPS Operations Center at Schriever Space Force Base in Colorado.
Requirement Hardware-wise, a GNSS receiver is needed to interpret satellite signals and compute the user’s location.
A search process detects whether a GNSS satellite is present or not in an area of the sky, based on correlation of a received signal with a reference signal stored in the receiver.
Corporate history ERM Advanced Telematics was founded in May 1985 as ERM Electronic Systems Ltd by Meir Hayman.
These signals are broadcast on marine longwave frequencies, which could be received on existing radiotelephones and fed into suitably equipped GPS receivers.
Differencing the results of two such calculations yields the delay difference sought ( τ i {\displaystyle \tau _{i}} in equation 3).
Many location-based video games are video games that run on a mobile phone, using its GPS capability.
PRNs are the "pseudo-random noise" sequences, or Gold codes, that each satellite transmits to differentiate itself from other satellites in the active constellation.
It may incorporate GRIB weather overlay on the chart, Tide predictions and other related information services of additional use to mariners.
A pseudorange that differs significantly from the expected value (i.e., an outlier) may indicate a fault of the associated satellite or another signal integrity problem (e.g., ionospheric dispersion).
Hawaii In March 2025, while on a joint hike in Hawaii intended to repair their marriage, Arielle Konig was attacked by her husband, Dr.
For instance, if the number of fast ticks is even, a 0 is chosen, and if the number of ticks is odd, a 1 is chosen.
One such example application is Alabama Freedom Pass mobile, used to link customer accounts at sites operated by American Roads LLC.
Examples of radio stations in the radiolocation-satellite service Frequency allocation The allocation of radio frequencies is provided according to Article 5 of the ITU Radio Regulations (edition 2012).
High-sensitivity receivers use large banks of correlators and digital signal processing to search for signals very quickly.
A location-based game (also called location-enabled game, geolocation-based game, or simply geo game) is a type of game in which the gameplay evolves and progresses via a player's real world location.
Network devices IEEE 1902.1 supports the design of networks constituted by two devices: Controllers and Responders, based on a simplified IEEE MAC layer.
At the end of this procedure, two range values are determined and an average of the two can be used to achieve a fairly accurate distance measurement between these two stations.
Because it is difficult to measure the TEC along the line of sight, instead a prediction can be made using a simplified model of the ionosphere.
Warm or normal The receiver has estimates of the current time within 20 seconds, the current position within 100 kilometers, its velocity within 25 m/s, and it has valid almanac data.
It was responsible for maintenance of a GPS Ground Antenna, Monitor Station, and various operational test assets.
Accordingly, the Court ruled that, under the Fourth Amendment, the government must obtain a search warrant in order to access historical CSLI records.
The objective is to improve individual and team performance and/or analyze opposition patterns of play to give tactical advantage.
Several email tracking services also feature real-time notifications, producing an on-screen pop-up whenever the sender's email has been opened.
Non-Asset Mobile Tracking Applications Persons may be tracked within a controlled geographical area; e.g.
Legacy radio-based system The original LoJack was a radio-based, hardware tracking system designed to prevent theft of a vehicle and aid in the vehicle’s recovery by transmitting vehicle location data to the LoJack receiver.
The term gained attention in the second half of the 2020s as online discussions and viral videos describing partners left behind on remote trails and mountains became popular.
These types of sensors are used in video game controllers, such as Microsoft's Kinect, and in motion capture for movie and television production.
Since the early 2010s, a new generation of navigational messages broadcast by many satellites now include "GNSS Time Offset" parameters for converting between time references, allowing receivers to forgo this estimation when needed.
Typical applications for this technology are tagging and locating assets in buildings, for which room-level accuracy (~3m) is usually enough.
The GPS data captured by the GIB was modulated over the analog VHF acoustic data stream using frequency-shift keying (FSK).
In recent years, Android and iPhone users can download apps such as GeoBeagle that allow them to use their 3G and GPS-enabled devices to actively search for and download new caches.
is an example of a company that has such a database and partners with other companies to aid with their web mining.
Technology Some location-based games that are video games have used embedded mobile technologies such as near field communication, Bluetooth and UWB.
This process is only approximate, and non-dispersive sources of delay remain (notably from water vapor moving around in the troposphere), but it improves accuracy significantly.
Messages and files at any point in the system can then be audited for correctness and completeness, using the traceability key to find the particular transaction.
GPS was administered by the Department of Defense, but had grown to service a wide variety of constituents.
The WAAS specification mandates availability as 99.999% (five nines) throughout the service area, equivalent to a downtime of just over 5 minutes per year.
By using a time-multiplexed scheme called TM-GPS, the reception of the telephone call and the GPS signal are alternated one after the other, requiring only one radio receiver.
A person can undergo a polysomnograph during an overnight stay in either a hospital or in a sleep center (a laboratory).
With the purchase of a subscription, SPOT allows short (41 character) user-defined text messages which can be sent to a list of telephone numbers and e-mail addresses.
In March 2015, it was announced that Securus was selling its personal emergency response service (PERS) platform to Ogden, UT–based Freeus, LLC, sister company of AvantGuard Monitoring Systems.
Workshops will include an update on ITS news, an update on RTIG projects and working group activities, and a set of presentations based around the workshop theme.
For PRN numbers 1 to 63 they are the truncated outputs of maximal period LFSRs which vary in initial conditions and feedback polynomials.
The increase in both accuracy and reliability will significantly enhance operations while reducing non-operational periods due to weather or adversarial efforts.
The attacker causes heavy CPU load on a pseudonymous server (Tor hidden service), causing CPU heating.
Search and rescue transponder (SART) A specialized radar beacon (RACON) that emits a string of 12 dots (replaced by arcs and circles when closer) for display on an X-band radar screen when scanned.
See also BeiDou Navigation Satellite System BeiDou-2 (COMPASS) navigation system Galileo (satellite navigation) GLONASS Quasi-Zenith Satellite System == References ==
Users can share their location and messages based on their account preference, alerting friends and family to their whereabouts.
Motorized vehicle navigation Systems designed for automobiles are able to calculate routes taking into account the road network, and sometimes in real time: their popularity has led to the wide spread of navigation assistants.
In 1961, the system was declared operational and assigned to the new 1st Aerospace Surveillance and Control Squadron until 1976, as part of NORAD's Space Detection and Tracking System (SPADATS).
Dynamic positioning (DP) is a computer-controlled system to automatically maintain a vessel's position and heading by using its own propellers and thrusters.
Today toll rings circumscribe Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Haugesund, Bergen, Askøy, Bodø, Harstad, Grenland, Førde and Trondheim.
Websites like Netflix and YouTube collect information about what shows users watch, which helps them suggest more shows that they might like.
This means that using a geofencing solution, companies can now track the customers who walked into the showroom after seeing the ad.
Conversely a vertically- or horizontally-aligned single-axis tracker will lose considerably more as a result of these seasonal variations in the Sun's path.
In 2014, the USAF declared initial operational capability (IOC) milestone for the Sniper ATP-SE which included sensor and networking improvements.
In 2015, the USCG and the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) sought comments on a planned phasing-out of the U.S.
There are four effective data channels; different data can be sent on each frequency and on each antenna.
This double difference is Δ r ( Δ s ( ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) ) = Δ r ( ϕ 1 , 2 , 1 − ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) = Δ r ( ϕ 1 , 2 , 1 ) − Δ r ( ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) = ( ϕ 2 , 2 , 1 − ϕ 1 , 2 , 1 ) − ( ϕ 2 , 1 , 1 − ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) .
The satellites supplement and partially replace the GPS Block IIA satellites that were launched between 1990 and 1997 with a design life of 7.5 years.
Block IIF series The Block IIF series are "follow-on" satellites developed by Boeing and first designed with the operational L5 signal in mind.
Feedback to the operator is provided through audio and visual displays which allows improved control of the machine in relation to the intended or designed direction of travel.
by providing tools and support), constantly develops the standard technically, and aims at enlarging the association.
For example, SVN 049 had been assigned PRNs 01, 24, 27, and 30 at different times of its lifespan, whereas PRN 01 had been assigned to SVNs 032, 037, 049, 035, and 063 at different epochs.
Zoombak, Inc was known for developing GPS-based products that help people track things, ranging from teenage drivers to employees, pets and automobiles.
There are also concerns that some installations are intentionally reconfigured to exceed the rated specifications by the manufacturer, thereby exceeding tested and certified magnetic field levels.
The network interface provides a standardized data format for multiple concurrent client applications, such as Kismet or GPS navigation software.
Radar systems often use a combination of TOA and AOA to determine a backscattering object's position using a single receiver.
The term PNA has come into widespread use with the growing popularity of automobile navigation systems.
On a 21 May 2009 Miami–São Paulo TAM Flight 8091 registered as PT-MVB, and on a 23 June 2009 Hong Kong-Tokyo Northwest Airlines Flight 8 registered as N805NW each saw sudden loss of airspeed data at cruise altitude and consequent loss of ADIRS control.
Although the research prototype of Lumitrack currently uses visible light, it could be adapted to utilize invisible infrared light.
Both of the above types of beacons usually include an auxiliary 25-milliwatt beacon at 121.5 MHz to guide rescue aircraft.
The range of the equipment is a function of the elevation of the receiving antenna: approximately 40 miles at an elevation of 2,500 feet, 70 miles at 6,000 feet, and 100 miles at 10,000 feet.
Tanaka created an entirely new approach from GNSS that locates the receiver's position with cosmic-ray muons.
The software was developed for seven months before launching, allowing time to build and test the product.
E-GPS ( Enhanced GPS, EGPS, trademarked as eGPS) is a technology designed for mobile phones on GSM and W-CDMA networks, to augment GPS signals to deliver faster location fixes, lower cost implementations and reduced power and processing requirements.
In command to line-of-sight (CLOS), which does not require a seeker onboard the missile, LOS refers to a line from a tracking radar to the target.
Wireless triangulation is a method of determining the location of wireless nodes using IEEE 802.11 standards.
The use of yield sensors developed from new technologies, combined with the advent of GPS receivers, has been gaining ground ever since.
Fingerprints can be used to fully or partially identify individual users or devices even when cookies are turned off.
In 2019, the British oil tanker Stena Impero was the target of a spoofing attack that directed the ship into Iranian waters where it was seized by Iranian forces.
Locating in relative coordinates ID signals from a tag are received by a multiplicity of readers in a sensory network, and a position is estimated using one or more locating algorithms, such as trilateration, multilateration, or triangulation.
Operation reCAPTCHA v1 (human-assisted OCR) Scanned text is subjected to analysis by two different OCRs.
Automated Flight Following (AFF) is GPS aircraft tracking that is mandated by a government agency (or other governing body) for its contractors.
Real-time data was collected at fourteen permanent ground stations spread across Canada, and forwarded to the central station, "NRC1", in Ottawa for processing.
In a typical commercial application, such as scanning a bag of groceries, potentially hundreds of tags might be within range of the reader.
Groundhog Inc., Groundhog Technologies Inc.'s operation center in Taiwan, went public in 2022 The company's products are built on top of its Mobility Intelligence Platform, which analyzes the locations, quality of experience, context, and lifestyles of subscribers in mobile operator's network.
Due to weather conditions the wave propagation speed, for electromagnetic waves in air almost the speed of light, can change.
I-540 Toll—a project, requested by the Capital Area MPO in 2011, that will convert all of I-540 into a toll highway, in Durham and Wake counties and requires federal approvals.
References External links CDGPS (Canada-Wide DGPS Correction Service) GPS·C Distribution Using NTRIP (archived) — PDF format
Long Range Kinematic (LRK) technology is a sophisticated kinematic method developed by Magellan (formerly Thales) Navigation that optimises the advantages of dual-frequency GPS operation.
Listed at the Swiss Stock Exchange (SIX:UBXN), it has offices in the US, Singapore, China, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, India, Pakistan, Australia, Ireland, the UK, Belgium, Germany, Sweden, Finland, Italy and Greece.
Email marketing users can view reports on both aggregate response statistics and individual response over time.
Tolls As of March 1, 2021 new Palmetto Pass accounts can only be established through the Southern Connector website or agency office.
See also Activity tracker Bluetooth GPS navigation device GPS tracking unit Heart rate monitor Inertial footpod Nike+ FuelBand Pedometer Quantified Self Smart band Smartwatch == References ==
Within the first six years after its introduction, the app had been downloaded by over 200,000 drivers and had collected more than 500 million miles of driving data.
Another important factor is the length of the cables used to connect the antennas with the radio beacons at the shore, for example placed on lighthouses, or on oil rig platforms and the cable(s) to connect the antenna with the transmitter at the vessel.
An optimization for the cost and sleeping period of the Request PDUs must be done on the application layer.
It was the most popular navigation system in use through the 1980s and 90s, and its popularity led to many older systems being shut down, like Gee and Decca.
For example, the Google search engine once used cookies to allow users (even non-registered ones) to decide how many search results per page they wanted to see.
Yassan also made headlines by proposing to his girlfriend with "Marry Me" a 7,163.7 km route covering most of Japan.
The functionality was "opt in" and had to be enabled by users due to the sensitivity of location data.
The above benefits create not only convenience, but also have the potential to generate significant cost savings.
DeLorme combined state highway, county, and town maps as well as federal surveys to produce the Maine Atlas and Gazetteer which was printed in a large-format book with an initial printing of 10,000, which he marketed out of his car.
In this instance, and in the instance that some maps (of specific countries) are not standardly available, Mobile Atlas Creator (MOBAC) can be used (e.g.
Comitangelo, R.; Minervini, D.; Piovano, B., "Beam forming networks of optimum size and compactness for multibeam antennas at 900 MHz", IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium 1997, vol.
Though it is a separately licensed product, Mobile Geo is seamlessly integrated with Code Factory's popular screen readers – Mobile Speak for Pocket PCs and Mobile Speak for Windows Mobile Smartphones.
Ordinarily, cellular geolocation and a built-in GPS receiver is used to determine the location of an E911 call made from CDMA phones.
Technology The projectors cover the tracked area with structured patterns called a binary m-sequence that resemble barcodes.
Magnetic positioning is based on the iron inside buildings that create local variations in the Earth's magnetic field.
Users then interact with this processed information through frontend applications, such as a web platform for managers or mobile apps for drivers and on-the-go supervisors.
The inclusion of Google Maps Navigation in Android devices such as Motorola Droid and Nokia's announcement of free Ovi Maps has led to many people using their smartphones instead of having a separate PNA for trip navigation.
In order to uniquely distinguish over time some devices through their fingerprints, the fingerprints must be both sufficiently diverse and sufficiently stable.
Whereas the C/A PRNs are unique for each satellite, each satellite transmits a different segment of a master P-code sequence approximately 2.35 x 1014 chips long (235,000,000,000,000 chips).
This device is about the size of a pager and can be worn on the belt using the belt clip that is provided.
A main purpose of finger tracking is to enable computers to be easier to use, operating through gesture interaction.
The system is also deployed for tracking everyone in the Singapore National Centre for Infectious Diseases for contact tracing and hand hygiene monitoring.
The majority of GPS uses are now non-military, so this board was fundamental in ensuring the needs of non-military users.
MapHook is a location-based journal and social networking application that is operated by MapHook Inc., a software applications development firm based in Dulles, Virginia.
The use of two radios with a single antenna imparts new design challenges, such as leakage of the voice transmitter signal into the GPS receiver circuitry.
This technology is also combined with software applications that collect, maintain, track and analyze the data and provide customized reporting of the location, status, and audit and maintenance history of each asset.
The Butler matrix feeds power to the elements with a progressive phase difference between elements such that the beam of radio transmission is in the desired direction.
In 2014, the company announced that it has to defer the recognition of revenues on orders due to the effects the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation has had on a distributor in Ukraine.
Blass, J., "Multidirectional antenna - a new approach to stacked beams", 1958 IRE International Convention Record, 1966.
The squadron is augmented by reserve personnel from the 19th Space Operations Squadron, part of the 310th Space Wing.
India has started taking initiatives for setting up traceability systems at Government and Corporate levels.
Rockwell Collins also manufactures a GPS receiver known as the "Polaris Guide", that looks like a DAGR, but uses only the civilian C/A code signals.
Figure 4a (first two plots) show a simulation of a pulse waveform recorded by receivers P 0 {\displaystyle P_{0}} and P 1 {\displaystyle P_{1}} .
Devices usually do not come with pre-installed GPS navigation software, thus, once purchased, the user must install or write their own software.
They charge a fixed value per kilometre distance, with several classes depending on vehicle type and regulated by the government.
Reference stations When initially deployed, StarFire used seven reference stations in the continental US.
The company has pricing policies that allow them to put mid range hardware on low end Prices, accompanied with Android OS.
TruConnect is an American mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) on T-Mobile and Verizon networks offering free phone service plans through Lifeline, as well as affordable prepaid mobile phone plans that include talk and text, 4G LTE/5G mobile data, and hotspot access.
Lei described the new strategy as a "life-or-death battle for our development" in his Weibo post, after Xiaomi's market share in China contracted over consecutive quarters, from 17% to 14% between Q2 and Q3 2021, dipping further to 13.2% as of Q4 2021.
iPassMe makes the world of mobile commerce accessible to all businesses with a broad range of software and hardware including iBeacons technology, to provide in-store mobile communication.
KPN lost control of the German Simyo operations in 2014 when it sold E-Plus to Telefonica, although it retained a financial investment in Telefónica Germany.
to base its products' Android distribution upon a variant of the popular custom ROM CyanogenMod and use its trademarks outside of China.
Voce (Italian for voice) was a premium Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) using the AT&T GSM network sold by Neiman-Marcus and created by Japanese company Faith Communications.
Founded in 2003, the company specialises in manufacturing mobile phones, smartphones to emerging markets under G'Five brand.
Carphone Warehouse purchased the UK ISP business of AOL in October 2006 for £370m and renamed it AOL Broadband.
Rolly keyboard In 2015, LG announced a Bluetooth keyboard that folds up along the four rows of keys for portability.
The Medium MVNO has the ability to set tariff bundles and packages independently from the retail prices set by the host network operator (MNO).
Following the Microsoft Ventures Accelerator, AppsFlyer raised Series A funding from Pitango and Magma partners.
After announcing his intention to defect from Telstra at the end of its contract, Telstra created a new company, BQ Communications, to compete against Crazy John's.
Adoption Despite intensive marketing attempts in the early 2000s LetterWise and WordWise were not widely adopted by cell phone manufacturers with the Multi-tap and T9 system holding the market.
In Spain, Simyo has been operating under the trade name of Simyo as an MVNO since January 29, 2008 through the Orange network.
These units are specifically aimed at households where mobile phones may only be owned by one or two family members and have also been utilized as community phones in centers.
2022 – Launches the Positivo Tech Services business unit to provide services and technical support for corporations throughout Brazil.
2020: "Security Technology Award Winner" for its SecurityPro product, from the Fierce Innovation Awards.
Original Features Kidoz initially offered a stand-alone Child Mode application for mobile devices, providing a controlled environment for children to safely navigate the World Wide Web.
The objective was to build an independent network from Sudan's with the most advanced Billing and VAS systems.
T-Mobile stated that these changes would help to reduce the negative stigmas associated with MetroPCS's prepaid services, by aligning them with other well-known brands as value-added services, and placing a larger emphasis on its use of T-Mobile's network.
In March 2014, Fiksu introduced two new indexes that measure costs on both iOS and Android – the Cost per Install Index and the Cost per App Launch Index.
Verizon is the 3G provider for Lively, and the network issues followed Verizon's retirement of its 3G mobile network.
But, the new product never hit the market, as on February 12, 2020, the company announced that it was ceasing operations because there was "no clear way to deliver ['Gem'] to customers".
The service launched in 2020 but stopped accepting new customers on 1 June 2023, and all services officially ceased on 15 December 2023.
Apache Cordova can be extended with native plug-ins, allowing developers to add more functionalities that can be called from JavaScript, making it communicate directly between the native layer and the HTML5 page.
Controversies On February 26, 2025, short seller firm Fuzzy Panda Research alleged AppLovin committed ad fraud and illegally tracked children and served them sexual ads.
TNT offers products tailored to meet consumer needs, with offerings designed to suit the lifestyles of its subscriber base.
Vernee was a brand of cellphones produced by the China based Shenzhen New-Bund Network Technology Co., Ltd.
Services Flurry Analytics Flurry Analytics enables users to analyze consumer behavior through data observations.
The name Crazy John's came about through people constantly telling Ilhan his marketing ideas were "crazy", and the name stuck.
As the team grew, the company evolved into a Cloud communication provider with services and products with aggregators and Telcos across the globe.
Contributors to the Apache Cordova project include Adobe, BlackBerry, Google, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Mozilla, and others.
Acquisitions and divestments AppLovin also has also invested in software development companies, and various mobile game publishers.
The company has factories in Ilhéus, Bahia and Manaus, Amazonas, and also has a presence in Argentina, Kenya, Rwanda, China and Taiwan.
Airship (software company), formerly Urban Airship, is a San Francisco, California-based company founded in Portland, Oregon, that offers mobile customer experience and messaging services.
Given repeated breaches of the code by Zamano, the tribunal imposed an increased fine of £40,000 == References ==
In addition to the standard version of WordWise Eatoni's website also notes they developed a more advanced version termed shift WordWise.
Besides the new camera, the C720t comes complete with full media powers (pictures, video, and music), as well as Bluetooth capabilities.
Tinno is among the list of brands that were found to have Adups applications pre-installed on their phones.
Nomad provides embedded SIM (eSIM) data services for international travelers and enterprise clients, with coverage in over 200 destinations worldwide.
In 2010, Promate established a fully-fledged branch office in Manila – Philippines to serve the South east Asia region.
Portable car navigation C7xx Series: C710, C720, C720t, C728 C5xx Series: C510, C510E, C520, C520t C3xx Series: C310, C310s, C310x, C310sx, C320 C2xx Series: C210, C210s, C220, C230, C250 The new range is the Mio Moov and the Mio Moov Spirit.
It includes features focusing on unifying cross-cutting concerns on a single platform to eliminate the repetition of work and to ensure frontend compatibility.
Individual SIMs are also available, capable of storing 450 phone numbers and 90 inbox text messages, and come with pre-loaded offers, pre-activated and ready to use when loading via prepaid card or outlet.
Crazy John's agreed to limit the amount of customer information it can use after its contract ended.
Metro conducts its operations on their physical store locations only, in contrast with other prepaid brands that offer services on physical locations and online.
In 2004, facing financial difficulties, Benefon entered bankruptcy protection and launched a re-organisation program.
Since 2000, Sharp heavily invested in LCD panel manufacturing plants: Kameyama in 2004, Sakai in 2009.
Controversy arose in January 2008, when many Voce clients were double billed on their last statements.
After the promised one year, BBK released their first student computer product "BBG Student Computer (Floppy No.1)"(BBG is the original English name of BBK).
Gizmodo went as far as to name TwitterPeek as one of the "50 Worst Gadgets of the Decade." In 2010, Peek 9's enhanced features were met by Engadget's reviewers as "dancing with a full list of features" and "Peek 9 is nine times faster than Pronto, adds PeekMaps, weather, Twitter, and Facebook".
This program provides these reduced-cost or free cell phone services to eligible households in most U.S.
Medio received $11 million more in 2006 to create a mobile analytics search engine capable of searching for ringtones, graphics, and internet-delivered information.
Products and services easySim.global offers prepaid eSIM data plans designed for both short-term and long-term travel.
In 2016, the Lively Wearable was recognized in The Wall Street Journal's "Best Of CES 2016: The Wondrous and Wacky Year Ahead in Gadgets".
In June 2015 a crowdfunding campaign was launched for the Saygus V² with the company citing manufacturing issues in delivering the finished product to pre-order customers.
This dual structure provides operational control and supports brand-safe advertising within mobile in-app environments across the company's network.
On March 19, 2019, Google announced that it would enter the video game market, launching a cloud gaming platform called Google Stadia.
This integrated system underpins the company's operational model and supports its role in delivering safe and effective digital advertising experiences globally.
Essential Products (marketed as Essential) was an American technology company and manufacturer founded on November 9, 2015, by Andy Rubin and based in Palo Alto.
In 2012, the company released the Jitterbug Touch, a keyboarded Android phone with a simplified user interface.
(As per their websites.) See also List of telephone_operating_companies List of mobile network operators of the Americas List of telecommunications regulatory bodies External links Caribbean Telecommunications Union
History The company was established in Palo Alto on November 9, 2015, by Android co-founder Andy Rubin, with funding from Playground Global.
Products Mobile Phones WIFI DUAL MODE Card N500DH EDGE Card N100E EDGE Card N775 UMTS Card N300U External links New Onda Website Phone Accessories Custom Phone Case
The company also generates a significant part of its revenue from the sales of IT and consumer electronics products under its own brands - Prestigio, Canyon, Perenio, AENO and Lorgar.
On June 21, 2015, the legacy MetroPCS CDMA network was decommissioned, and customers were migrated to the company's LTE network.
On 6 November, TalkTalk stated that the impact of the breach was "much more limited than initially suspected", adding that 156,959 customer accounts were involved, from which 15,656 sort codes and bank account numbers had been taken.
See also PhoneGap NativeScript Xamarin Flutter (software) References External links Official SDK webpage and documentation Official Slack support Official organization webpage
In 2013, TracFone began to open up its device pool with a 'bring your own device' program, selling SIM cards that could be inserted into qualifying non-TracFone phones (such as Verizon CDMA phones) to connect with the TracFone network.
Following the elimination of cell phone service, many Voce customers complained to Neiman Marcus requesting refunds or store credit.
Benefon's efforts to create a niche market in GPS telematics had met with some success (especially in commercial security markets) but had not been enough for the company to remain viable.
(First Trimester 2025) The country's telecom regulator is the CRC (Comisión de Regulación de Comunicaciones).
As of 2026 the companies include Oppo, OnePlus (which operates as a subsidiary of Oppo), Realme, Vivo and IQOO (which operates as a subsidiary of Vivo).
Holafly is a company that provides mobile internet connectivity services to tourists and international travelers.
History XCom Global was Established May 3, 2010 and started with two data plans: limited for over 130 countries and unlimited data plan for 21 countries.
Kidoz (TSX-V: KDOZ, OTCQB: KDOZF) is a Canadian technology company that operates an adtech platform specializing in mobile gamer engagement and privacy-compliant mobile advertising infrastructure.
The company is an MVNE (Mobile Virtual Network Enabler), providing mobile services to companies that want to control their own network.
OnePlus Nord 5 Released in July 8 ,2025, the OnePlus Nord 5 features a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8s Gen 3 chipset .The Nord 5 features a massive 6800mAh silicon carbide battery with 80 W SuperVOOC charging.
The company also unveiled a partnership with Chinese esport team Royal Never Give Up, to further expand its brand among esport enthusiasts.
As of August 2022, CloudSight has 15+ granted patents for its technology and has recognized over 1 billion images.
In 2026, the company was included as a Leader in Gartner's Magic Quadrant for Personalization Engines.
Neiman Marcus did not issue any such credits, but referred existing customers to preferred vendors to replace their service.
The promotion asked selected participants to destroy their phones on video to purchase the OnePlus One for $1 (US).
Airalo provides eSIM services compatible with mobile networks in most countries, and users can choose between eSIMs for a specific destination, for a region, and at a global level, with various data packages available, including unlimited data eSIMs.
In 1997, Gradiente established a joint venture with Finland-based telecommunications manufacturing firm Nokia, where they were granted the license to manufacture variants of Nokia mobile phones locally under the Nokia and Gradiente brand names.
Because of this the court granted an injunction against Samsung and ordered Samsung to cease infringement.
Wigdor and Balakrishnan indicated WordWise performs similarly to earlier techniques but with subtle advantages, though as with all predictive techniques the efficiency relied essentially upon the use of natural language with techniques such as abbreviations tending to nullify any advantage.
It comprises four business units: home entertainment, mobility, home appliances & air solutions, and business solutions.
Popular offers include: 30 GB of data for ₱399 25 GB with 100 minutes + 500 texts for ₱299 Users can convert data into call minutes or SMS using the app (“Mo Creds”).
In 2021, ASBIS achieved record-breaking financial results both in the fourth quarter and throughout the year.
G'Five International Limited (simplified Chinese: 基伍国际有限公司; traditional Chinese: 基伍國際有限公司; pinyin: Jīwu Guójì Yǒuxiàn Gōngsī) was a Chinese consumer electronics company headquartered in Shenzhen, Guangdong and registered in Hong Kong.
Also in 2018, LG decided to stop smartphone production in South Korea to move production to Vietnam, in order to stay competitive.
In 2007, Forbes magazine included Gresso Avantgarde phone in top 10 most expensive mobile phones in the world.
In 2013, RW3 released the BI Suite, a business intelligence environment that enables organizations to create views across departments and utilize multiple data sources to align sales strategies.
In a study carried out by UK telecoms regulator Ofcom in 2010, TalkTalk was found to have average speeds of 7.7-9.3 Mbit/sec, while it was advertised as "up to" 24 Mbit/sec.
Evertek produced several mobile phones (Dual and triple SIM) and is gaining progressive access to the Tunisian market.
Kroger Wireless LLC is an American mobile virtual network operator providing domestic telecommunications services via the T-Mobile Network.
Technology The 2008 Peek device was designed by Peek in partnership with IDEO and BYD, and its architecture is based on the Texas Instruments Locosto chipset with an ARM core.
Fortumo co-founder Rain Rannu explained the reasons for bringing in investors: "Working with Intel Capital and Greycroft will help us to pursue additional growth opportunities, including strategic partnerships and acquisitions".
Early in its history, KORE established connectivity partnerships with Rogers in Canada and AT&T in the U.S., providing LTE-M and other IoT services across both markets.
From then on, the computer and video game factory, telephone factory, and AV factory became completely independent companies with their own equity and personnel structures.
History In August 2000, Walt Disney Internet Group (WDIG) entered the mobile content market in Japan with an agreement with NTT DoCoMo to launch the Disney-i content service.
The phones available for purchase from Aio were seen as typical for a prepaid provider, ranging from $30 feature phones to $50 low-end smartphones to various iPhone models, both at reduced prices for refurbished handsets to $649.99 for the then-new iPhone 5, the standard unsubsidized price.
Simyo belongs to the Dutch telecommunications group KPN, after acquisition of the remainder of E-Plus on March 14.
Lifeline TruConnect is in partnership with a federal and state-funded Lifeline Program, overseen and managed by the FCC and USAC.
In order to reduce marketing costs, OnePlus relied instead on word of mouth and initially only allowed purchases via an invite system.
The company has been working with industry groups like BTG to get pilots off the ground with companies like SURFnet.
"Videocon became the first company to bring colour TVs in India," claims Anirudh Dhoot, the founder's grandson (Venugopal Dhoot's son) and Videocon's current director.
So far, the company has already launched Bharat 2 - which is considered one of India's cheapest 4G mobile phones.
History In September 2008, the original Peek email device was launched in the United States and was sold at the price of USD$99.00.
LG released its first GSM network phones during 2001 although had also marketed CDMA phones before then in the U.S.
The core network components featured the usual manufacturers in Cisco and Oracle, but also smaller specialist vendors like Blueslice and BroadForward.
Its Jitterbug Flip network experienced a network disruption at the start of 2023, with Best Buy stating that Jitterbug Flip2 phones, Jitterbug smartphones, and Lively-branded phones weren't impacted.
It started as a joint venture under the name InMo, partially owned by Infonet Corp which was acquired by BT.
It won't satisfy convergence-rabid smartphone fetishists, but for the rest of the world (i.e., the majority of it), this one-trick pony is a godsend.
2023 – Launches the PositivoSEG business unit, focused on automation and electronic security for the B2B market, as well as acquiring SecuriCenter, a distributor of technology solutions equipment for the automation and electronic security market.
Since 2019 the company has been virtually defunct and its headquarters building is to be sold in an auction.
NQ Mobile has also worked closely with Symbian, Windows Mobile and Android, developing mobile security applications based on those operating systems.
The device also features Dolby Audio multi-channel audio, noise cancellation, and utilizes a Qualcomm Snapdragon 615 processor, an Adreno 405 GPU, and a 3000 mAh battery.
AT&T decided to create Aio as a separate brand for those different, "value-conscious" customers targeted by Aio's offerings.
It uses a service option for a cellular phone network which permits subscribers to use their phone as a walkie-talkie with unlimited range.
Over the following twelve months, customers were migrated to one of the other three carriers based on their area codes.
(December 2016) Paraguay The country has 7.34 Million subscribers in total, or a 109% penetration rate.
Other mobile phone products included the Benefon Class that enabled cordless handset use, and the Benefon Smart, available in different colour options.
The company launched what it later called "the first mobile phone and a GPS navigator integrated in one product", the Benefon Esc!, in late 1999, followed by the Benefon Track in 2000.
Three Super Star first-place finishes at MobileVillage Mobile Star Awards in 2012 for Best SUCCESS STORIES: Mobile Marketing – McDonald's & SAMY; Best ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS: Marketing; Best CONSUMER APPS: Shopping or Sales.
Reception Mashable noted in 2009, "The Usefulness of Poll Everywhere is apparent." See also Audience Response Systems == References ==
Venugopal Dhoot, the promoter of Videocon had fraudulently transferred part of the loan received from ICICI Bank to the Kochhars' business entreprise after Chanda Kochhar, Sandeep Bakhshi became the full time managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank.
Voce has never provided an official statement to its customers regarding the status of its network, but all company phone numbers are disconnected and Voce has now taken down their website.
The acquisition was approved by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on November 22, 2021, and closed the following day.
Pine64 sells a "Clusterboard" with an inbuilt eight-port Gigabit Ethernet switch, which can be used to build a cluster system out of up to seven SOPINE modules.
Their third phone, the MV1, was announced in February 2016, and was released to Asian, African, Latin American and European markets in March 2016.
Applicants can also communicate directly with verified college students via the paid mentor messaging feature.
LocationSmart provides near real-time location data for devices including smartphones, feature phones, tablets, M2M, IoT and other connected devices on Tier 1 and Tier 2 wireless networks in the U.S.
In 2000, Telmex spun off its mobile unit, creating América Móvil, of which Topp Telecom became a subsidiary.
Helio's new $29 per month rate plan offered unlimited talk, text and data but at capped data speeds of 128 kilobits per second.
References External links GOMO Singapore GOMO Thailand GOMO Philippines GoMo Ireland GoMo Switzerland GoMo Cyprus
History The first collection of mobile phones was presented in 2006, with some made using gold and African blackwood.
The MVNOs combined market share was 15.9% of the total UK mobile market, representing 15.3 million connections.
The line includes five models: RoverPad Air G70, RoverPad Go G50, RoverPad Go G72, RoverPad TegA W70 and RoverPad 3WG70.
In April 2009, Peek launched their second device, the Peek Pronto, which supported Push email ('instant' delivery), Microsoft Exchange, increased support for email attachments (PDFs, DOC, and pictures), and unlimited texting support.
Virgin Mobile UK Virgin Mobile UK was a mobile virtual network operator, and a division of Virgin Media O2 (joint-owned by Liberty Global and Telefónica).
The company is backed by investors Charles River Ventures, Matrix Partners, Opus Capital, and Shasta Ventures.
Operation Promate operates in over 150 countries worldwide through offline distribution, retail and e-commerce channels.
History AppsFlyer is a privately held company co-founded in Israel in 2011 by Oren Kaniel, its current CEO, and Reshef Mann, company CTO.
The 8 and 8 Pro have a circular cutout in the upper left-hand corner of the display for the front-facing camera.
The mobile application is also available in the Google Play Store, and between the two platforms it has received a combined 31,000,000+ downloads as of 2022.
See also List of mobile phone makers by country References External links Solid Group official website my|phone Official Website
The product was released on 24 September 2008 at RadioShack to coincide with the season premiere of the new Knight Rider series.
Jordan Jordan's top watchdog issued its first MVNO regulations in 2008, facilitating the creation of the first MVNO in the Arab world in 2010.
Products The company's flagship phone was the TM-5200, which was installed with the Yandex Opera Mini and Yandex Opera Mobile web browsers.
In October 2019, CleverTap announced its Series C investment of US$35 million led by previous funders, bringing the total investment to just over US$77 million.
The company was deregistered on 7 April 2023 as it split its component brands off into separate companies or brands.
In 2008, Promate became an Apple MFi Certified brand with a dedicated R&D and Design center in Shenzhen-China.
"Keeping customer coming round is idea behind iLoop." http://www.bizjournals.com/sanjose/print-edition/2011/04/08/keeping-customers-coming-round-iLoop.html.
The feature allows parents to take screenshots of the kid's screen when they are browsing certain apps.
Crazy John's applied for an injunction in the Federal Court in Melbourne to prevent Telstra from going ahead with this second demand.
In 2020, BBK Electronics represented by Oppo, announced its involvement in independent research and development of chips.
Continuing Lau's association with the platform from the Oppo N1, OnePlus entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Cyanogen Inc.
The six MVNOs are: iTel (Indochina Telecom), Wintel (Mobicast/Masan Group), myLocal (ASIM Telecom), VNSKY (VNPAY), FPT SIM (FPT Retail), and SkyX (Leeon Group).
The operation was originally started in 1988 as mobile phone manufacturer Benefon who began research on GPS safety phones in 1995 and launched the first commercial GPS/GSM safety phone, the Benefon Track, in 2000.
While the origins of most of the phones listed below are unknown, they are believed to be produced by CECT.
Telstra, on the other hand, began threatening to not renew the exclusive reseller agreement it had with Crazy John's when it ended on 1 July 2007, if didn't agree to new terms that included less commission per customer.
Production and design The mobile phones also include pre-installed applications and features designed by Filipino software developers.
The eight countries with the largest number of active MVNOs in 2018 were: the US with 139 MVNOs (4.7% market share), Germany with 135 (19.5% market share), Japan 83 (10.6%), UK 77 (15.9%), Australia 66 (13.1%), Spain 63 (11.5%), France 53 (11.2%) and Denmark 49 (34.6%).
LetterWise uses the probability of letters occurring in a particular sequence to achieve performance.
HomeChat employs LINE, the mobile messenger app from Korean company 'Naver', to let homeowners communicate, control, monitor and share content with LG's smart appliances.
On 20 April 2022, Oi’s mobile network operations were sold to the country's three largest carriers, Vivo, Claro and TIM.
The company was also praised for its public support for a clean energy policy, after advocating the Japanese Government to increase the use of renewable energy.
Retailers including Walmart, Dollar General and Family Dollar, food delivery services including Instacart, and convenience stores including Shell are all part of the Ibotta Performance Network.
The Star64 is Pine64's first RISC-V SBC, based on the StarFive JH7110 SoC, launched in September 2022.
A technical plan was also prepared to ensure the continuity of the service even when using the new numbers.
2015 – Launches the Quantum smartphone brand and obtains a license to produce and sell VAIO notebooks in Brazil.
Huawei should not seek to enforce those orders until I have the ability to determine the breach of contract claim it chose to present in this action prior to filing the Chinese actions” Scott Graham use the headline “Judge Blocks Huawei's Chinese Injunctions Against Samsung”.
In November 2013 an opinion piece on the stock market analysis website Seeking Alpha claimed that MEDL Mobile was making elaborate claims through press releases as a part of a pump and dump scheme with its company stock.
Although they share the same name and digital-only business model, GoMo services are operated independently under different parent companies in various countries.
ASPIDER is traditionally known as a Mobile Virtual Network Enabler (MVNE), delivering services to a variety of operators and MVNOs and MNOs (Postmobile, Vodafone and T-Mobile).
See also List of mobile network operators of the Americas References External links Official website
(Sudatel) and several other shareholders including Celtel, until 2006 when it was fully acquired by the Mobile Telecommunications Company (MTC) as part of its strategy; to transform from a local to a regional, then a global telecom entity.
Smartface App Studio Smartface App Studio is now deprecated and replaced with the Cloud IDE offered in Smartface Cloud.
For example, the Unlitxt Extra 30 provides subscribers with free texts to TNT/Smart numbers for three days, along with 15 minutes of calls to TNT/Smart.
2007 – Reaches leadership in the national computer market with the sale of 1.389 million PCs, a number that places it in the select group of the ten largest desktop manufacturers in the world.
Compared to the Nord, it has a 6.49-inch display of the same resolution at 90 Hz, however it is an LCD rather than an AMOLED.
The brand gained recognition with releases such as the Liberty Air 2 Pro earbuds with active noise cancellation and the Liberty 3 Pro released later in 2021.
It operates from 64 bases in 30 countries and its products are distributed in 164 countries worldwide.
In March 2010, the company introduced its first collection of Gresso Grand Monaco phones for women, with some phones made entirely from crocodile leather.
Early versions of PhoneGap required an Apple computer to create iOS apps and a Windows computer to create Windows Mobile apps.
In 2015, Nazara obtained the license from Green Gold Animations to create mobile games based on Chhota Bheem animated television series.
In August 2007, the company introduced two models of luxury Avantgarde smartphones: Luna and Sol based on Windows Mobile 6.0 Standard operation system and Gresso interface.
The company responded by stating that the exposed data consisted primarily of error logs and incorrect login attempts.
Kroger Wireless invites customers to purchase phones at select Kroger store locations, via their website, or by bringing their eligible Sprint device for activation.
In November 2011, after the market was open as required by DR-CAFTA, Claro and Movistar started service.
In July 2009, Charles Dunstone, CEO of TalkTalk Group announced that TalkTalk had withdrawn plans to introduce Phorm, along with a similar announcement from BT in the same week.
Aio initially launched in the southern US cities of Houston, Orlando, and Tampa, and with small variance in the data tiers offered in each city.
Customers can also choose from a number of value-added services related to the team, some of which are free.
In 2012, CERN selected the xTCA Test Tools developed by Polaris Networks for the internal testing of their xTCA systems, including those of the Large Hadron Collider.
1382, Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court On 4 January 2018, the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court issued a judgment which was not made available to the public due to confidentiality to the parties.
It was used until 2011, when LG Electronics retired the Cyon brand and all new mobile phones were rebranded as LG.
Sensors on board include an accelerometer, ambient light sensor, e-compass, gyroscope, proximity sensor, temperature sensor.
Education and teaching career Cavanagh received his bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and his master's degree from Saint Louis University, both in social work.
A pioneer of social work profession, he excelled as an educator, scholar, internationalist, university administrator, and leader in a variety of professional associations in his long career, spanning more than sixty years.
"Sometimes readers are more willing to go along with serious social issues and racial themes if the story is compelling." Social justice and children's advocacy work Concurrently, Revoyr is executive vice president and chief operating officer of Children's Institute, Inc.
On July 6, 2017, he helped to establish the "LGBT municipality Parliamentary League." It aims to spread regulations and measures to protect the human rights of sexual minorities to local governments throughout the country through local assembly.
Personal life O'Day is married to Marybeth Murphy, with whom he has four sons: Tyler, Max, Patrick, and Kevin.
Ellen DeVoe is a professor in the Clinical Practice Department at the Boston University School of Social Work and founding director of the Trauma Certificate Program.
They married on July 9, 1924, and had five children, four daughters and one son: Reber Consuelo Williams, Gwen Cann, Johnnie Mae Durant, Ruth S.
The organisation that would become the Liverpool Personal Services Society (and later just PSS) was founded in 1919 by philanthropist and prolific social campaigner Eleanor Rathbone and social worker and Keeling in Liverpool.
In 2020, in the Bruce Lee Podcast, she stressed about the importance of mental-health and ancestral trauma healing, and how individual mental-health is directly linked with the health of our planet.
Vishanthie Sewpaul 'The Arc of Our Paths: Growing into Wholeness' (A Memoir) 2020/2021 Vishanthie Sewpaul, Linda Kreitzer and Tanusha Raniga 'The Tensions Between Culture and Human Rights: Afrocentricity and Emancipatory Social Work in a Global World' 2021.
Buchanan's research was focused on studies on children who were looked after, child protection, the impact of divorce, fathering, grandparenting, child-well-being and children at risk of exclusion.
The title of her dissertation was Confronting the pain of infertility: Feminist, ethical and religious aspects of infertilely and the new reproductive technologies.
Her first husband was a newspaper publisher, John Harold Sommers; they married in 1924 and divorced in 1928.
Under this project, SMIC set up several healthcare and educational institutions including basic infrastructure like water tanks, toilets and community kitchens.
Criminologists speculated that even genuine cases may have involved self-appointed child abuse investigators, or individuals seeking to make false accusations, rather than child sexual abusers.
Development and criticism Melrose Place was criticized for not featuring Matt and his love life as prominently as it did other characters.
(social work), Columbia University Awards 1993 Economic and Cultural Diversity Award for his work with AIDS orphans and their families.
Vishanthie Sewpaul publications indexed by Google Scholar Publications by Vishanthie Sewpaul at ResearchGate
On 15 August 2018 she was elected president of the Ordinary Women and Family Commission of the Congress.
Howard authored nearly 400 publications, which includes more than 300 peer-reviewed articles, book reviews, editorials, government reports, and abstracts.
273–283, ISBN 978-1-0353-1245-0{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Fahrudin, Adi (June 2012).
Additionally, she also served on the Taskforce on Healthy Aging at the North Carolina Institute of Medicine between 2022 and 2023.
Frick married Nadine Batliner (born 1 March 1971) on 22 June 2001 and they have three children together.
Career Her teaching focus includes social policy, child and family policy and international social welfare.
Alvarado was the subject of the book Tras los Pasos de Carmen Rivera de Alvarado by historian Angel Pérez Soler, published in 2024.
Johnson remained Director of the School of Social Work until her successor Ernest Witte was appointed in 1939.
Early life and education Princess Jayanti was the first daughter of Prince Basundhara of Nepal and his first wife Princess Helen Shah of Nepal.
References External links 2014 Huffpost Article by Enrile - "Rebuilding Stronger After Typhoon Haiyan" 2018 Interview with Enrile - "U.S.’s fast-growing Filipino-American community confronts human trafficking concerns"
"Djeca bez roditelja i roditelji bez djece" [Children without parents and parents without children].
He is also one of only three Distinguished Public Servants to have their portrait displayed in the Miami-Dade County Stephen P.
She qualified as a Social Worker in 1963 and joined the University of East Anglia as a Lecturer in Social Work in 1979.
She is also Co-Director of the Institute for Child and Family Policy at Columbia University and Co-Director, Cross-National Studies Research Program.
Afterward, he understands why Will is so disturbed and suffering from insomnia and asks where he buried her, but he does not want to talk about it.
Career Motivated by the 1985 neath of a friend from HIV/AIDS, Berman became an AIDS educator, policymaker and service provider at Center on Halsted (formerly known as Horizons Community Services), Heartland Alliance, and the AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
Addams was elected president of the International Committee of Women for a Permanent Peace, established to continue the work of the Hague Congress, at a conference in 1919 in Zürich, Switzerland.
In 2002, she was named Vice Provost (and in 2006 Senior Vice Provost) for Undergraduate Education and University Life.
For post-graduate studies, Nazreen was a distant scholar at Samye Ling College of Scotland and pursued a Nangi Shedra in Indo-Tibetan Buddhism.
Career Completing her schooling in 1914, Petkova worked as a teacher for two years and then entered Sofia University to study law.
The community center she worked at needed a schoolhouse, and Violet asked for a cement donation from her close community.
Greenstone helped more than 60,000 women and children as they passed through Ellis Island, and became known as "the Angel of Ellis Island".
In 2001, he completed the Department of Developmental Disorder Education, Special Course of Special Education, Chiba University .
She graduated from the University of Melbourne after residing in what was then Trinity College Hostel and is now called Janet Clarke Hall.
From 1993 to 1995, she was appointed by mayors Tom Bradley and Richard Riordan as commissioner for the Los Angeles County American Indian Commission.
Additional work As a clinical professor at Barry University's Graduate School of Social Work, Knight served his community and its people in more ways than just professional.
Strier was a graduate of the first class of "Chofen" Institute (Hebrew acronym for "Open Experimental Education Institute") at the Ministry of Education, which, under the leadership of the late Professor Moshe Caspi, sought to advance open and democratic education in Israel.
When Ramos became the 12th President of the Philippines, Amelita became First Lady of the Philippines.
Arrests Wan was arrested on 1 November 2020, along with six other democrats, in connection with the melee that had broken out in the LegCo on 8 May 2020.
See also 2019–2020 Massachusetts legislature 2021–2022 Massachusetts legislature References External links Commonwealth of Massachusetts profile
Garcés Carranza works at the Puerto Rican Family Institute-Outpatient Psychiatric Clinic and at the Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center.
As a result, the Dumping Ground is briefly blue, but re-Beaker-ised thanks to the news reports about the accident.
In the seventeenth issue of the comics, Paige looks for a witch named Sarah at a Salem house; however, she meets Cole who won't let her in.
Kirk holds the Marjorie Crump Chair in Social Welfare at UCLA and is a former psychiatric social worker.
Publications Working with Families in Crisis: An Exploration in Preventive Intervention Notes == References ==
Recognition and reception Uma Preman received over 150 awards, including the Woman Icon Award 2018, Vanitha Woman of the Year 2015 and CNN-IBN Real Heroes (Health and Disability) 2010.
From 1946 to 1947, Das worked in a relief camp in Noakhali, one of seventeen set up by Leela Roy, following the riots which took place there.
Buckingham (Eds.), 1998 Michael Shernoff, AIDS: The Therapist's Journey, in A Perilous Calling: The Hazards of Psychotherapy Practice, M.
She belonged to a Bihari family which moved to Karachi following the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.
Eileen Younghusband was also active at an international level, initially through the British Council and the UN, and from 1950 through the International Association of Schools of Social Work (IASSW), initially as board member and from 1961 onwards as (honorary) president.
Active for over 13 years, this unique program assigns social work students, social works, and activists from distressed communities in Haifa side by side, in order to advance community projects, educational programs, and legislation to advance social justice and decrease poverty.
In 2002, he joined the pro-democracy Neighbourhood and Worker's Service Centre (NWSC) as the assistant of legislator Leung Yiu-chung and ran in the 2003 District Council elections, defeating the pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for Betterment of Hong Kong (DAB) in Shek Yam and was re-elected in 2007.
In addition to her work in the JFW, Lady Allan served on the board of directors of the Mico Teachers' Training College.
Refugees and asylum seekers Slonim-Nevo and others are studying the psychosocial condition of asylum seekers from Darfur in Israel.
Biography Eileen Younghusband: A Biography, Issue 76 of Occasional papers on social administration; ISSN 0473-7520 by Prof.
Many artists contributed work for the auction, including donated works by Shalom Moskovitz (Shalom of Safed), Michoel Muchnik, Phillip Ratner, and more.
In 2017, he authored a report, Voluntary Action: A Way Forward, which included an extensive range of recommendations for the future of civil society.
After Partition, Das was instrumental in establishing the Rangirkul Ashram, which she ultimately became leader of.
Biography Perween Rahman was born on 22 January 1957, in Dhaka, then situated in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).
In 1958 she took a course in metalwork and welding at the Natal Technical College and began to make decorative mobiles, going on to create sculptures using bronze, copper, silver, and enamel.
As the home of Laura Ratcliffe from the earliest days of the Civil War until her death, it was Laura's only remaining property and the likely hideaway spot for Confederate soldiers during the Bristoe Campaign.
Career From 1994 to 1998, Mills was a lecturer at the UCLA School of Law and an assistant professor in the UCLA School of Public Policy and Social Research.
The core Hull House residents were well-educated women bound together by their commitment to labour unions, the National Consumers League and the suffrage movement.
She holds honorary doctoral degrees at Mid Sweden University, Sweden, Miguel de Cervantes University, Chile and at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Norway.
Education and career At the University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, Kaijage received a Bachelor of Arts in education in 1978.
Her undergraduate education was at UC Berkeley School of Social Welfare, earning a bachelor's of social work in 1953 and her Master of Social Work at the same school in 1955.
In 2022, Flynn agreed to plead guilty to federal bribery charges and was sentenced in June 2023 to three years probation and $150,000 in fines.
After expressing her love discreetly for wounded parole officer Henry Mitchell, Paige unlocks the emotional trigger of love to access her healing powers, which she later uses to heal Henry of his gunshot wound.
She deals with the case of Finn Mackay (Sonny Green) and his foster parents Will Cooper (Scott Vickers) and Robbie Fraser (Gary Lamont).
In addition to her duties on Ellis Island, Greenstone assisted the immigrant community in New York by teaching English, arranging activities and events to expose the newly-settled immigrants to American life, and helped to arrange both jobs and marriages.
In 2004, The couple swap houses with Beth Hunter (Clarissa House) and move back into Summer Bay House, Sally's childhood home and take over the running of the caravan park.
For Jewish immigrants, Greenstone established Shabbat services and arranged for deliveries of kosher food to hospital patients.
Santhi Medical Information Center During frequent hospital visits with Preman, Uma noticed the difficulties faced by rural patients in receiving medical help and information and offered to assist them.
In 1989, she founded the NGO Urban Resource Centre in Karachi and was also part of the board of Saiban, another NGO dedicated to low-income housing, and Orangi Charitable Trust (OPP-OCT), the microfinance branch of OPP.
2013 Sitara–i–Shujaat (Order of Bravery, Posthumous) conferred by the President of Pakistan on 23 March 2013 2022 Google celebrated the 65th birthday of Rehman with a doodle.
After graduating from Rockford in 1881, with a collegiate certificate and membership in Phi Beta Kappa, she still hoped to attend Smith to earn a proper B.A.
In the last episode of the first series, Tracy is offered a job for a newspaper in London, and she has to write an article about life in care.
Black died in 1956 and Keeling moved back to Liverpool and she still took an interest in social work and the Citizen's Advice Bureaux.
Starting in the 1970s, he developed numerous studies comparing how social welfare services are provided in the U.S.
A founding member of the Jamaica Federation of Women (JFW), she held many offices in the organization including serving as chair from 1959 to 1962 and again from 1971 to 1976, and then president from 1976 until her death in 1995.
As a social worker, doroshwalther co-authored the report Reinvesting in Economic Justice, Equity and Solidarity for Survivors in New York City.
Wilder was the grant’s director to train health care providers who work with people with HIV, Hepatitis C and Sexually Transmitted Diseases in ways to improve their outcomes.
Research In 1973, Buchanan worked with Jack Oliver on his studies of severely abusing families – with one family they traced back 7 generations.
Susan Schechter (1 May 1946 – 3 February 2004) was an American feminist and activist against domestic violence.
Dorothy Clarissa Keeling (2 December 1881 – 27 March 1967) was a British social worker who joined The Bradford Guild of Help and went on to Liverpool where she transformed voluntary efforts there and in the UK.
She named the facility "Solhem" and it opened in 1914 at the beginning of World War I, as one of the first facilities of its kind in the country.
In 1994, she was featured on a Philippine stamp, and a plaque was erected in her honour at the Philippine Women's University.
ZAMI NOBLA As a child, Adams knew an elderly woman that she called "Miss Savannah" who she spent ample time with.
He moved up to management positions and became the county's first black deputy county manager and assistant county manager.
She most recently served as executive director of the Jefferson County Department of Human Services.
When she reaches the roof of the hospital, she backs away to the edge of the roof and Kayako pulls her off to her death.
She was appointed to the Minimum Wage Committee, served on the Commission on Beaches and Foreshore Lands, and also worked with the Juvenile Court on a panel of advisory Justices of the Peace.
When we are introduced to Paige, her orbing power can only be channeled in panic induced situations as a fear response.
He has completed (with Gray and Midgley) The Handbook of Social Work for Sage, which is the world's first major international reference work in this field.
The administration of social inquiry reports for both children and adults was supervised by the probation services, which included advice, agency referral, counselling, and filing court reports.
After completing a German language course at the Otto Benecke Foundation, she graduated from the Hermann-Ehlers-Gymnasium in Berlin-Steglitz.
In January 2022, Voisin began his tenure as Dean of the Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio.
In 1969, Wichiencharoen was selected as president of the International Women's Association of Thailand.
The local newspapers were full of photographs of the Indian princes when they arrived for the weddings, with headlines like A Thousand and One Nights and A Muslim Wedding.
They later began development on a second film, Inherently Unequal, based on the Lawrence Goldstone's book of the same name.
Career When Khan was a student of the women studies department, she learned about contributions of home based workers and she took up the subject for her Master's thesis.
Other members of the study group, which usually met in Alley's house, included YWCA secretaries Maud Russell, Lily Haass and Deng Yuzhi.
She involved various international organizations to establish a cancer hospital in Nepal, raised social awareness, and led anti-smoking campaigns.
10 years later, Wilson became Captain America after the original Avengers were killed by Kaiju-like monsters led by "Apex" Hulk.
When Violet was younger she was known to be in mission circles, she was able to take this interest in community affairs and through this she as able to establish and organize Bantu Purity League.
Her leaders there encouraged her to pursue higher education at Ole Miss to aid in the integration of the university.
While at college, Knight joined Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity He then served a four-year tour in the United States Air Force and then returned to complete his master's degree in social work from Atlanta University, which he finished in 1957.
In 2006, Slonim-Nevo was nominated by the Israeli Minister of welfare to review the functioning of social workers who provide child custody reports in divorce hearings, Slonim-Nevo committee.
Jesse identified with Jenny more than he did with Frank and Nancy and sought Jenny's advice on various topics over theirs.
He emphasized the importance of social work education in his 1992 book, Internationalizing Social Work Education: A Guide to Resources for A New Century, which was described as "extremely helpful" by Charles Guzzetta.
Publications A selection of books, chapters in books and articles published by Sewpaul can be found on her staff profile at UKZN.
He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from George Williams College in 1934 and his Master of Science degree from the University of Chicago in 1938.
Simpkins Cann also served as president of the Cincinnati chapter of the National Council of Negro Women.
In 2018, Nazreen's efforts were monumental in leading and garnering international support for the Free Shahidul campaign.
She is a graduate of the Federal Judicial Center's National Leadership Development Program and the Senior Executives in State and Local Government program at Harvard's Kennedy School for Executive Education.
She helped establish an Indigenous school in Hidalgo, represented the government at the first World Conference of Educators, and worked with Elena Torres to make the authorities aware of problems facing rural teachers.
He served on the Portfolio Committee on Rural Development and Land Reform and later the Portfolio Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
In Bialystock, Greenstone managed her father's cigarette factory and helped the factory workers to form a labor union.
Fourth Panel, panel from conference Recognising Sexual Violence, featuring Shirley Jülich, Hildur Fjóla Antonsdóttir, and Lindsey Pointer, 15 Oct 2022, via YouTube
Shernoff produced, following the AIDS death of a partner, an anthology entitled Gay Widowers: Life after the Death of a Partner that ten years later was described as still being the only book to address the specific challenges of grief for gay men having lost their partners.
She moved and took a job in a mental hospital when Black began lecturing in Sheffield in 1950 – Black became the head of the University of Sheffield's Social Science department in 1952.
Jaccard was ranked second among social work scholars worldwide for lifetime productivity, quality, and impact, according to ScholarGPS’ Highly Ranked Scholars 2022.
He was able to help offset any damaging effect of the image of that day that the Indian Christian Church and community were in someway "foreign." Death and burial Balaram died from a heart attack on 17 January 1968.
Legacy Princess Jayanti's mother, Princess Helen, established the Jayanti Memorial Trust (JMT) in her (Jayanti's) memory.
References External links Anu Aga – Director, Profile Archived 18 May 2015 at the Wayback Machine Thermax India.
In 2007, O'Day ran in a special election to represent the 14th Worcester district in the Massachusetts House of Representatives.
Later in 1987, he controversially signed the Unity Accord allowing ZAPU to merge with ZANU to stop the genocide.
He declined the award of an MBE in 2012 as an opponent of the monarchy, arguing the honours system was designed to promote differences of status to which he was opposed.
In 2014, Marvel announced that Wilson would succeed Rogers as the new Captain America, a mantle which the character thereafter assumed in several additional runs.
Before escaping, Bamberger left her belongings for safekeeping at the home of the cantor, Siegfried Würzburger.
Walters was a professor and the Katherine Hall Chambers Scholar at the University of Washington School of Social Work.
In 1922, he joined the striking workers of Assam Bengal Railway and Steamer Company in protest against the atrocities on the workers of tea plantations of Assam.
'The Crowded Stairs' was the title of Dorothy Keeling's book about social work in Liverpool, including the Liverpool Personal Services Society, 'The Crowded Stairs'.
Two issues emerged from her NCDS work: first, the impact of divorce on children’s outcomes and second, the important role of fathers.
They have also been quoted in several news articles on financial abuse in her capacity as a social worker.
The "Probation of Offenders Law 1963" provided for the establishment of probation officers for the island, established codes for adult offenders' supervision, and proscribed the managerial duties for the principal probation officer.
In high school, he played trombone in the marching band and played on the football and baseball teams.
The NGO has successfully managed to get these marginalised waste pickers government recognised occupational identity cards and other loan and health facilities, giving them legitimacy.
Dina Salústio (born Bernardina Oliveira; 1941) is a Cape Verdean novelist, who is the first woman from the country to publish a novel, and the first writer from the country to have a novel translated to English.
The Princess Jayanti Achievement Award Ceremony is collaboratively arranged by Hotel Annapurna and Jayanti Memorial Trust.
"Publicity pursued her," commented a 1948 profile, "and she never ran away from it very fast." Early life Crawford was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the daughter of Andrew Crawford and Isabella Clark Crawford.
Sir Stuart James Etherington (born 26 February 1955) is a British charity executive and former social worker.
She was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire at the end of the war in 1946 for her work with the Citizens Advice Bureau.
Myers, another social work academic at Florida A&M University, Randolph is the author of the book Basic Statistics in Multivariate Analysis (Oxford University Press, 2013).
Life Frick was born on 29 November 1965 in Walenstadt as the son of Ernst Frick and Anna Della Ripa as one of six children.
She is the founder of Santhi Medical Information Center, a nonprofit charitable organization that provides medical guidance, care and rehabilitation for patients with limited income and resources.
Political career In 2018, Cavanagh attempted to run for a seat in the Iowa House of Representatives against Lindsay James.
But Flynn thinks she may have been heading for the Bay, and he's hoping to be there if, and when, she arrives." Shelley Sutherland (Paula Forrest), who ran the centre, was pleased to have him working there.
Annalisa Enrile is a Filipina-American clinical associate professor at USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work.
Addams's autobiographical persona manifests her ideology and supports her popularized public activist persona as the "Mother of Social Work", in the sense that she represents herself as a celibate matron who served the suffering immigrant masses through Hull House, as if they were her own children.
Lily Pincus (née Lazarus, 13 March 1898 – 22 October 1981) was a German-British social worker, marital psychotherapist and author.
Suhasini Das (Bengali: সুহাসিনী দাস; 1915 - 30 May 2009) was an anti-British activist, social worker and politician from Bangladesh.
Meiselman, an important American economist and prominent monetarist, in 1965; he was then working at the World Bank in Washington, D.C.
He is author of several highly cited books including Social Work in a Risk Society (Palgrave, 2006) and Evidence-based Social Work: A Critical Stance (with Gray & Plath, Routledge, 2009).
She is best known for her works in welded copper and other metals, holding her first exhibition in 1960.
The council aims to stimulate innovation, development and commercialisation of life enhancing drugs, treatments and care for people with dementia, or at risk of dementia, within a generation.
(and also was included to the golden fund of national azeri television) “Mirage” (1987) a collection of novel and short stories.
Emergence: Out of the Shadows entered the Canadian Screen Awards for Best Feature Documentary and Best Editing for 2022.
He is also one of a group of friends who live together in the same West Hollywood apartment complex.
(The play “Javad Khan” is included in the golden fund of Azerbaijani television) (The novel “Javad Khan” was first published in the Motherland magazine in 1996) “Scream” (1993) – a play.
DiStefano received her Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree with highest honors from Richmond College (now called College of Staten Island) and her Masters in Social Work degree from the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Life McNairy earned a bachelor's degree sociology in 1968, a master's degree in social work in 1970, and a Ph.D.
CBC Books listed Doctor's 2020 novel Seven on its list of Canadian fiction to watch for in spring 2020.
Modern/Secondary Sources Mentioning [1] osmanian.com: Attributes the slogan "Apna Gaon, Apna Raj" to Raghunath Mahato in 1769; lists "Raghunath Singh" in Phase 4 (1800–1833).
Domingo Namuncura Serrano (born 1952) is a Chilean social worker and politician of Mapuche descent who served as Ambassador of his country in Guatemala.
G H I J K L M See also List of Star Trek characters A–F • N–S • T–Z List of recurring Star Trek: Deep Space Nine characters • Enterprise • The Next Generation • The Original Series • Voyager List of Star Trek episodes == References ==
He founded the Swadesh Bandhab Samiti to promote the consumption of indigenous products and boycott foreign goods.
In April 1992, he founded Megjashi, the first children's embassy in the world, which promotes and protects children's rights as well as provides support for child victims of violence and abuse.
One of her students in that period was Olive Stevenson who would become highly influential as a Social Policy academic and administrator.
In 1938 Gerlach joined the China Defense League organized by Soong Ching-ling, the widow of Sun Yat-sen She helped smuggle money and medical aid to parts of China that had not been occupied and to the Chinese Communists and other group opposed to the Japanese.
With the declaration of war by the United Kingdom on Germany the day before the Kursk was to land, the ship was diverted.
"À la rencontre des jihadistes de Roumieh : Nancy et Maya Yamout reconstituent le puzzle de la violence - Jeanine JALKH".
After the series end, it is shown in flashforwards that Paige accepts her role as a Whitelighter, aiding many witches and future Whitelighters that include her nieces and nephews.
He joined the University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD (UMBC) School of Social Work in 2004 as an assistant professor, and during his time at the school he was promoted to associate professor.
See also List of bishops of the United Methodist Church References Short, Roy Hunter, Bp., History of the Council of Bishops of The United Methodist Church 1939–1979, Nashville, Abingdon, 1980.
The term "down low" specifically addresses African-American males secretly engaging in sexual behavior with other men.
Between July 2021 and March 2022, she served as Presidential Delegate for the Region of Magallanes and Chilean Antarctica, under the presidency of Sebastián Piñera.
Gerlach and 25 other foreigners were honored by Vice Premier Wang Zhen in December 1979 at a banquet in the Beijing Great Hall of the People.
On 1 February 1994, he moved to become Chief Executive of the National Council for Voluntary Organisations (NCVO).
Steph continues the rumour and the other characters are too scared to prevent her because of her "bitchy" characterisation.
In I Am, the actor Sanjay Suri plays Abhimanyu, a child sexual abuse survivor, a character inspired by Harish's life and that of Hyderabad-based fashion designer Ganesh Nallari.
Department of Defense to fund a program that would help support the healthy reintegration of soldiers from Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom into their families." == References ==
Career Born in Hong Kong in 1969, Wan graduated from the City University of Hong Kong with a Bachelor of Social Science (BSocSc) in Social Work, studied at the University of Essex from 2006 and graduated with Bachelor and Master of Arts in Sociology.
His scholarly work has been used in the fields of organizational change, development and administration, and in community organization.
Education Estes earned an AB from La Salle University, followed by a Master of Social Work degree from the University of Pennsylvania and a Doctor of Social Welfare degree from the University of California, Berkeley.
Her early social epidemiological research involved LGBT, two-spirit, and urban American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) populations across the United States.
Education B.A., Sociology, University of California, Berkeley; M.S.W., University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana; D.S.W.
He was twice a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University.
While attending SUNY Stony brook, Berman worked for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention getting transferred in 1976 to Chicago.
She was the sister of author and teacher Ahtsham Ali Memon, and the current head of the OPP, Aquila Ismail.
Reber Simpkins Cann (July 26, 1903 – February 5, 1985) was an American educator, social worker and community activist.
Nazi persecution When the Nazis came to power in Germany in 1933, the entire Bamberger family was persecuted because of their Jewish heritage.
In 2024 Otto assisted in a review study over calcific aortic stenosis, concluding that upon diagnosis of aortic stenosis by echocardiography, there are two major forms of treatment.
Following medical school, Lawton attended the Medical College of Virginia for her general surgery residency and became a research fellow in Ralph J.
Moore Lectureship – 2011, Seattle President's Lecture, Pacific Coast Society of Orthodontics – 2012 Edward H Angle Lecture, AAO Annual Session – San Diego, 2017 == References ==
His current interests are in the area of diagnostic and therapeutic of Neurology, Oncology, Cardiology, and Nephrology/Urology using Nuclear medicine.
Early career and medical school Brewster left school and worked as a teacher for several years, including at the high school in Smethport, Pennsylvania.
He was a member of the Rome Foundation Board for 20 years, a current editor for Up To Date, and past Editor-in-Chief of the American Journal of Gastroenterology and Alimentary Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Program for Evidence-based Patient Guidelines Physicians' Program for Patient Safety and Medical Error Prevention.
He is currently a faculty member at the University of British Columbia, and Editor-in-chief for the journal Medical Education.
There, he worked on dietary treatment of children with food intolerance and Crohn's disease, and showed that exclusive enteral nutrition in children with Crohn's disease was safe.
William Harold Fishman (March 2, 1914 – January 25, 2001) was a Canadian-American cancer researcher who taught at Tufts University from 1948 until his retirement in 1975.
Some of them are in the areas including, not limited to, Neuroendocrine Tumours, Tissue Characterization, Molecular radiotherapy in Children, and Brain Disorder.
https://www.linkedin.com/posts/mcgill-university_mcgill-has-announced-its-spring-2025-honorary-activity-7325953371738173443-eQW1/ Professor Khan was born in Germany.
She received a master of science from Syracuse University and a Master of Public Health at Harvard University.
His lab studies mycobacterial physiology and virulence and has developed many of the genetic tools used to study Mycobacterium tuberculosis and related organisms.
He previously served as Neurology Residency Program Director and Neuroimaging Fellowship Program Director at the University at Buffalo-SUNY.
He is a fellow of Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons an honour bestowed upon him in 2020 for his contributions to the veterinary profession.
1895 mayoral campaign In 1895, Holmes was the Populist (People's Party) nominee for mayor of Chicago.
He then took an MSc in Tropical Animal Health and Production at the Centre for Tropical Veterinary Medicine in the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, which led to his appointment as Technical Advisor in the Middle East and North Africa, for The Wellcome Foundation.
He became chairman of medicine at University of Virginia School of Medicine in 1939, and professor of physiology at Harvard Medical School in 1943.
Using this data, he and his research team helped establish the system of bile duct cancer stages now used around the world to designate how advanced the cancer has become.
Career Jocelyne Feine is a Professor in the Oral Health and Society Division at the McGill University Faculty of Dentistry.
1: 23-27), the official journal of The Baker Street Irregulars, "The Cheap Romantic" in the Tucson Weekly (11/11/92), and "For the Birds" in Tucson Lifestyle Magazine (7/95), among others.
Prior to his call as a general authority, Parmley served previously in the church as a bishop, stake president, and area seventy.
Landis served as president of the American Society for Clinical Investigation in 1942 and as president of the American Physiological Society in 1952.
He is the founding chair of the board of IAS-USA and sits on the board of Pangaea Global AIDS Foundation, advises at the Accordia Global Health Foundation, and is involved in many other activities to support research in HIV and global health.
He also was briefly a Professor of Biostatistics at the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston before he moved to Canada.
He said virtual colonoscopy finds 90% of large, precancerous polyps but is less successful with smaller ones.
His manuscript titled "Functional imaging of neuroendocrine tumors with combined PET/CT using 68Ga‐DOTATATE (DOTA‐D Phe1,Tyr3‐octreotate) and 18F‐FDG" published in 2008 has been cited more than 300 times alone.
Member Central Advisory Committee of Forensic Sciences, Ministry of Home Affairs and Member of the Central Medico-legal Advisory Committee of Forensic Sciences, Ministry of Health.
He went on to serve as a radiology resident in multiple Swedish hospitals affiliated with Karolinska University from 1949 to 1953.
Bartrip, ‘Wynter, Andrew (1819–1876)’, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, 2004, accessed 11 Sept 2007 S.
In 1843, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh; his proposer being Sir Robert Christison.
He is the founder and director of the Rippe Lifestyle Institute, located in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts.
Gillenwater with the support of Hovey Dabney, was responsible for the creation of University of Virginia Health Sciences Foundation, with a significant institutional impact enabling innovation and discovery for clinical practitioners and scientists.
He was first professor at Boston University School of Medicine, then Frank Wister Thomas professor of medicine and chair of the department of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine (now the Perelman School of Medicine), and finally a professor at Harvard Medical School.
Gray believed that insanity was always due to physical causes and that the mentally ill should be treated as physically ill.
He was chairman of the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology at the university's Graduate School of Medicine from 1946 to 1957.
He was educated at Cornell University and the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
Her family moved to the United States when she was five, and she became an American citizen at age eleven.
Career at the New England Journal of Medicine Kassirer was first named editor-in-chief of the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) in 1991.
Nemiah was born on November 30, 1918, in Cheshire, Connecticut, and later on moved with his family to Hanover, New Hampshire, when he was young.
Early life Edward Nathaniel Brown was born on April 23, 1852, in Glenwood, Erie County, New York, to Myra Theresa (née Warren) and Nathaniel Howland Brush.
References External links Domhnall MacAuley on the History of Modern Biomedicine Research Group website
Kassirer spent much of his academic career at Tufts University School of Medicine, where he has been a professor since 1974 and currently holds the title of Distinguished Professor.
He was one of the first allied medical professionals to reach the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, following its liberation in April 1945.
Education Ray has a bachelor's degree in microbiology from the University of Manchester and a PhD from Imperial College London where she studied Shigella flexneri.
During Noseworthy's tenure, Mayo Clinic's revenues increased to $12 billion and the hospital ranked No.
During the last two decades of his life he suffered from the after-effects of a car accident and later from bronchitis and heart failure.
Jerold Francis Lucey (March 26, 1926 – December 10, 2017) was an American pediatrician and journal editor.
His studies showed that slow growing isolates of toxoplasma were more resistant to treatment and if fast growing toxoplasma isolates were slowed by reducing the temperature, they also became more resistant to treatment with pyrimethamine.
There was reluctance among industry to investigate this drug further in trials because of the absence of a large market.
Career In 1965, Gillenwater became assistant professor in the Department of Urology at the University of Virginia.
He also argued against the ability of postpartum infections to be spread by the hands of physicians.
Biography Sorsby was born Arnold Sourasky in Bialystock, Poland, on 10 June 1900, the brother of Max and Maurice.
Nakamoto, M, Nalavadi, V, Epstein, MP, Narayanan, U, Bassell, GJ and Warren, ST: Fragile X mental retardation protein deficiency leads to spontaneous mGluR5-dependent internalization of AMPA receptors.
Career Grimley Evans worked with Donald Acheson before joining the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine as a lecturer.
His main research activities are on hereditary diffuse gastric cancer and hereditary lobular breast cancer associated with Cadherins disfunction.
Higher education and medical training Following graduation, Malani enrolled at the University of Michigan where she designed an independent curriculum in medical journalism.
She is a professor of medicine, oncology, molecular biology, and immunology at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
In the same year, he was both elected Hunterian professor with his lecture titled "The Investigation and Management of the Neurogenic Bladder", and appointed consultant urologist at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.
At the beginning of 2018, Nekhlyudov was elected as the inaugural scholar to participate in the National Cancer Institute (NCI)/AcademyHealth Healthcare Delivery Research Visiting Scholars Program.
In 2019, he received the Distinguished Scientist Award-Basic Domain from the American College of Cardiology.
He was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment, but was released in October 1913, pardoned by the president and reinstated in his profession.
Offices held Member of the Technical Committee and Deputy Commissioner of Department of Family Planning, Ministry of Health.
Chang, S, Bray, SM, Li, Z, Zarnescu, DC, He, C, Jin, P and Warren, ST: Identification of small molecules rescuing morphological, biochemical, and behavioral phenotypes of fragile X syndrome in Drosophila.
He has appeared frequently in public media to talk about screen exposure and the benefits of manual play (and other topics) in children.[1] Christakis has been instrumental in the revision of national guidelines on pediatric screen exposure.
He was elected a fellow of the American Council for High Blood Pressure Research and an honorary fellow of the Australian Blood Pressure Council.
Gottschalk Distinguished Lectureship in 1999, and the Hugh Davson award for Cell Biology in 2011, both from the American Physiological Society.
Comroe investigated topics including reflex control of breathing, rate and depth of breathing, and the effects of drugs and oxygen.
"Patents, profits & American medicine: Conflicts of interest in the testing & marketing of new drugs" (PDF).
While there, Epstein worked to understand the nature of Werner's syndrome, a genetic disease that causes premature aging.
He also is the head of the steering group for the INGUIDE Guideline Development Training & Certification Program.
Robert Weinberg, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was in the audience when Spandidos gave this talk, and later recalled that he had devised what he called "exactly the same" strategy to identify oncogenes in human tumors not long before Spandidos' talk.
As an undergraduate, Volkmar published or collected data for seven papers; his first publication (Rearing complexity affects branching of dendrites in the visual cortex of the rat) appeared in Science and earned him the Psi Chi national prize for research.
While Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Clinical Investigation, Varki made it the first major biomedical journal to be freely available on the web in 1996, presaging the general "Open Access" movement that came years later.
He currently directs 'The Comings Foundation': a private foundation (www.TheComingsFoundation.org) devoted to combatting climate change and advancing the Medical Sciences.
Career In 1991, Sacco co-authored a study investigating the high rate of stroke risk among African Americans.
He has also written about the negative impacts of the false claim that the MMR vaccine might cause autism, and is an outspoken advocate of mandatory influenza vaccination.
From 1966 until 1970 he was Professor of Metabolic Medicine at the Welsh National School of Medicine in Cardiff, and then Professor of Medicine until 1979.
Anil Aggrawal (Hindi: अनिल अग्रवाल, IAST: Anil Aggrawāl; born 17 August 1956) is a professor of forensic medicine at the Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, India.
She previously held lectureships in journalist or science policy at the California Institute of Technology, Duke University, Stanford University, Vassar College, and Yale University.
Affiliations and fellowships In 2010 he was named a Fellow of the American Society of Neurorehabilitation.
Mapping the Cells in the Liver — Unchartered Subtypes and Heterogeneity, Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology, July 30, 2019 doi 10.1038/s41575-019-0192-0 Personal life Ray lives in London, England.
Research Lao is known for researching acupuncture and other forms of traditional Chinese medicine, such as Chinese herbal medicine.
In 2021, Stone officially stepped up as editor in chief of the American Journal of Infection Control following the retirement of Elaine Larson.
She was chairman of the executive committee, and from 1893, was president of the Woman's Alliance, which secured for Davenport a police matron, in 1890.
Parmley also co-authored with Stanton Glantz several papers on the health effects of passive smoking that were covered by the news media.
Education and career Blattner received his bachelor's degree in 1966 from Washington University in St.
He has an edited book titled "A History of Radionuclide Studies in the UK: 50th Anniversary of the British Nuclear Medicine".
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Stanton, Elizabeth Cady; Anthony, Susan B.; Gage, Matilda Joslyn (1881).
Education Poland received his BA in biology from Illinois Wesleyan University in 1977 where he was a member of Sigma Pi fraternity.
He is also Director, NHMRC Centre for Research Excellence in Transforming Gut Health and an NHMRC Leadership Fellow.
She served on the board of advisors of the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth College and the Institute of Human Virology at the University of Maryland, Baltimore.
Working with Carl Frederic Schmidt, he carried out generative research work on the mechanisms and control of breathing, identifying carotid and aortic chemoreceptors and their part in the regulation of breathing.
He gave in 1963 the Heath Clark lectures, which were published as Crisis in Communication (London, The Athlone Press, 1965).
Career When Cotton was recruited by Boston University to serve as the first Assistant Provost for Clinical Research and Director of the Office of Clinical Research in 1998, she was recruited from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School.
He was a key member of the Coalition for Gun Control which won the 1996 Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission's Community Human Rights award for its advocacy for gun law reform after the Port Arthur massacre in 1996.
Katz found that while regional anesthesia was successful in reducing the intensity of acute pain, there was not enough conclusive research to show that it preempted chronic pain.
Fortescue Fox's father was the seventh son of Quaker surgeon Joseph John Fox, who came from an unbroken line of Quaker doctors for five generations.
He was named the Harry Wallace Professor of Neonatology in 1995 and remained in that role until his retirement in 2009.
He has carried out numerous consultancies in the Developing World, particularly in Africa, India, Bosnia, China and St.
In 1999 he published work identifying specific myelin reactivity of these autoantibodies deposited in areas of myelin damage in MS brains.
There he taught and did research on the effects of insulin on hepatic glucose metabolism and on elucidating the enzymatic defect in McArdle's disease.
He worked with international organisations including the World Health Organization, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS Tuberculosis and Malaria to persuade them to incorporate harm reduction into their policies and strategies.
He has been recognised as an ISI Highly Cited Researcher, and received the Grimes Research Career Achievement Award from OHRI in 2015.
He was a strong advocate of treatment and training of the disabled war veterans, and became the first medical director of the Enham Village Centre, which opened in 1919.
William James Morton (July 3, 1845 – March 26, 1920) was a United States physician, an authority in electrotherapeutics.
Daniel Levy is an American cardiologist who is the director of the Framingham Heart Study at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, a division of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
economist list of "Germany's most influential economists", reaching 8th and 11th position in 2017 and 2018, respectively, the highest among health economists.
When Daroff was ten years old he left public school and attended the Riverside Military Academy in Gainesville, Georgia.
136-139 « An apparatus for the use of breath sounds as a hypnagogic stimulus », American journal of psychiatry, 100, 1944, p.
She has authored over 170 peer-reviewed articles, two books, and a dozen invited papers and book chapters and more than 150 abstracts.
"The Care of the Insane in Farm Dwellings," Proceedings of the American Medico-Psychological Association (1899): 326-336.
Her doctoral research on patient-driven rehabilitation following a stroke developed an intervention designed especially for Māori and Pasifika.
He retired from his position as associate director of the IHV and director of its Division of Epidemiology and Prevention on January 31, 2016.
In 1993, he established the journal Obesity Research (now known as Obesity), and served as its editor-in-chief from then until 1997.
In 198?, Sadé was appointed Incumbent of the Felix and Sara Dumont Chair of Hearing Disorders Research at Tel Aviv University.
While there, she started Nature Genetics in 1992, Nature Structural Biology in 1994, and Nature Medicine in 1995.
References External links Stephen Leeder at the Sydney Medical School Stephen Leeder at The Conversation
Herman Stanton Bachelard (1929 – 12 September 2006) was a British neurochemist, editor-in-chief and neuroscience book writer.
Career Nekhlyudov joined the non-profit Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates in 1999 as a primary care physician and appointed Instructor at the Department of Population Medicine at Harvard Medical School.
Hitzenberger became politically active after the war and was vice-president of the Association of Austrian Medical Women for many years before she became president in 1974.
Joseph Stephen Alpert (born 1942 in Connecticut) is an American cardiologist and professor of medicine at the University of Arizona Sarver Heart Center.
He was a member of the editorial staff of The New England Journal of Medicine for over 25 years: associate editor (1922–1947), editor (1947–1967), and finally editor emeritus (1967 onwards).
For most of Herndon's academic career, from 1966 to 1989, he was senior associate dean for research and development at the medical school.
Since 2008, he has served as a professor in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the same university.
She has said that she was impressed by how quickly Singapore responded to SARS-CoV-2, which was likely informed by their experiences with the SARS epidemic years before.
She was the second vice-rector for academics from 1993 to 1996, when she became the vice-rector for academics.
After graduating from Dartmouth College in 1948, having studied zoology, he completed a doctor of medicine at New York University College of Medicine in 1952.
His great-uncle was a Governor of British Tobago and it was planned for Robley to become a West Indies planter but the uncle died and the plans to move to the West Indies were abandoned.
Günter Ollenschläger worked as a research pharmacist from 1975 until 1981, and as a university physician from 1983 until 1990, working in the fields of pharmacokinetics, tumor related malnutrition, and metabolism.
External links Works related to Woman of the Century/Cora Belle Brewster at Wikisource Cora Belle Brewster, 1859–?
He performed his surgical residency at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, and performed further training at the pediatric surgery at The Children's Hospital Medical Center in Boston.
Gillenwater married Shirley Brockman, also from Kingsport, in 1955, and they have three children Linda, Ann and Jay Merritt.
In 2022, he was elected a member of the Academia Europaea and more recently was awarded the 2025 Grand Prix Européen by the Fondation Recherche Alzheimer.
From 1908, he served as demonstrator of bacteriology and comparative pathology at the Royal Institute of Public Health in London, before he was employed by the Imperial Health Office in Berlin in 1910.
He saw disease just as it was; theories never distorted, nor did prejudice obscure it: all was clear and perfectly distinct from every other object.
At the age of 16 he enrolled at the University of Chicago, but after one year transferred to the University of Pennsylvania, to be closer to home.
In 2001 Volberding left the SF General Hospital to become chief medical officer at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, at which time he also became vice chairman of the department of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF).
He also served as a tenured full professor at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington.
He has extensively researched the Streptococcus pyogenes strain AP53, focusing on bacterial and mouse transgenesis and genetics.
While at McGill, he was an attending physician at the Jewish General Hospital and McGill University Health Centre.
He was also the editor of the American Journal of Insanity, the precursor to the American Journal of Psychiatry.
After discovering that no single institution had treated enough patients with bile duct cancer to collect sufficient data on this rare disease, Pawlik pooled data from researchers and doctors around the world to better guide care and provide treatment options.
Lock was a co-founder, with Edward Huth, of the Vancouver Group (later the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors), and a former president of the European Association of Science Editors.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, he was a board-certified anatomic, clinical and forensic pathologist, and a private forensic pathology consultant.
Education Lao was first trained in acupuncture at the Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
Research focus Sell's laboratory focuses on the role of the mTOR protein kinase in cellular senescence, and in 2019 his research group showed that the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin can extend the lifespan of human cells and decrease the appearance of aged cells in human skin.
Relman was the only person to have been president of the American Federation for Clinical Research, the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians.
Life Patrick Walsh grew up in Akron, Ohio, received his undergraduate and medical training at Case Western Reserve University.
Sampath Parthasarathy is a former Associate Dean of Research and current Professor and Florida Hospital Chair in Cardiovascular Science in the College of Medicine at the University of Central Florida.
Until 2020, he was the National Director for Dementia Research for the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) in the UK.
Following graduation he visited Paris and then did a tour of both Italy and Spain before returning to Edinburgh to set up as a physician.
He was the William Patterson Timmie Professor of Human Genetics and the Charles Howard Candler Chair of Human Genetics.
In January 2008, Cameron reported a very large surgical series, the 30-year history of surgical treatment in 372 cases of Marfan syndrome at Johns Hopkins Hospital.
He became a full professor in 1977 and was appointed Kleiderer-Pezold Professor of Biochemistry in 1982.
In 1873, he moved to India with his family and lived in Jabalpur, Calcutta (now Kolkata), and Darjeeling.
His postgraduate training was interrupted by military service; Brody became a captain in the Army Medical Corps in 1946, and served as a consultant in the Nuremberg trials.
Publications and fringe claims Walach has conducted studies examining elements of complementary and alternative medicine, and developed the Freiburg Mindfulness Inventory.
Awards and honours Grimley Evans was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci) in 1998 and was knighted in the 1997 Birthday Honours.
In 1815, he then went to London, where he attended anatomy classes at St Thomas's Hospital, and enrolled in the United Hospitals of St.
Lustberg previously served as the Medical Director of Supportive Care at Ohio State's Comprehensive Cancer Center and President of the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer.
Ian Douglas-Wilson (12 May 1912 – 15 October 2013) was a British physician who was editor of The Lancet, a United Kingdom-based medical journal, from 1965 to 1976.
In 1963 he joined the Brompton Hospital as house officer, and later became a member of the Royal College of Physicians of both London and Edinburgh.
His doctoral thesis was an early treatise on the mechanism underlying the gallop rhythm in heart failure.
ISBN 0387713107 Behavioral Economics and Public Health, edited with Christina Roberto: Oxford University Press.
He became a Professor and Director of Educational Research and Scholarship in the UBC Faculty of Medicine in 2010, and is Associate Director and Scientist in the Centre for Health Education Scholarship (CHES).
Career From 1983 to 1993, Rippe worked at the Exercise Physiology and Nutrition Laboratory at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.
Career He was editor-in-chief of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute and has been on the Editorial Board of Cancer Research and statistical consultant to the New England Journal of Medicine.
He practised as a pulmonary specialist in Switzerland for eleven years (1903–1914) first at Davos and then in Arosa, as director of the Villa Gentiana, a sanatorium for English-speaking patients.
Education A 1976 graduate of the BUSM, Cotton completed infectious disease fellowships at the National Cancer Institute in 1984 and National Institute of Health in 1985.
She is the Ronda Stryker and William Johnston Professor of Global Health in the Department of Epidemiology at the Harvard T.H.
Archived 2014-01-22 at the Wayback Machine via PBS Newshour, Feb 10, 2010 (interviews Schatzberg and Allen Frances on some of the main changes proposed in the DSM-5 draft)
Career In 2008, Palermo was named a fellow of the American Psychological Association (APA), recognized by Division 54, the Society of Pediatric Psychology.
ISBN 019939833X Social Epidemiology of Sleep, edited with Dustin Duncan & Susan Redline, Oxford University Press.
He began the study of medicine at Rush Medical College in Chicago and, after a year, returned to the University of Michigan Medical College graduating with an M.D.
In 2019, Kibbe was the recipient of a Distinguished Service Award from her alma mater, the University of Chicago.
Recognition In 2017, Munafò received the Presidents' Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychological Knowledge, an award given annually by the British Psychological Society.
Herbert Davis Chalke (15 June 1897 – 8 October 1979) was a British physician known for his work in the fields of social medicine and medical history.
Appointments Volkmar was appointed director of the Yale Child Study Center in 2006, succeeding Alan E Kazdin, and served until 2014.
He was an instructor at New York Polyclinic Hospital, and a consultant at Mount Sinai Hospital, the Montefiore Home for Chronic Disease, and Manhattan State Hospital.
Shikora's Publications References External links Scott Shikora page in Brigham Women's Hospital Directory Scott Shikora at Brigham Women's Hospital
Statement to the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, archives.democrats.veterans.house.gov; accessed April 20, 2015.
Career After completing a residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, Majerus worked for the National Heart Institute, conducting research on fatty acid biosynthesis in E.
She was returning home from a gastrointestinal cancer research meeting in San Francisco, California.
Career During her tenure at OSU, Lustberg has focused on researching "physicians’ and patients’ perspectives on cancer survivorship care, prevention of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, and early detection of chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity in breast cancer survivors".
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery® search results for Goldwyn (700) Bloomberg Businessweek: Robert Goldwyn Executive Profile and Biography
The same study found that the period during which women had the highest chance of conceiving lasted six days, including the five days before ovulation and the day of the ovulation itself.
In 2005 he wrote "Doctors in society: medical professionalism in a changing world", an inquiry into the future of medical professionalism, for the Royal College of Physicians.
His father, a clergyman and schoolmaster who became the head of Lowestoft College in East Anglia, taught him classical languages, and Clegg gained scholarships at Westminster School and Trinity College, Cambridge.
From 2005 to 2010, he was a professor of biomedical sciences at the University of Central Florida, where he was also the chairman of the Center for Lifestyle Medicine.
Castellino (also known as Frank Castellino) is an American biochemist and professor at University of Notre Dame.
Walsh is an American urologist, researcher and writer, best known for developing "the anatomic approach to radical prostatectomy", involving nerve-sparing techniques which reduced the likelihood of impotence and urinary incontinence.
The group studied 25 districts in Lima and gathered information about which genetic strains are likely to be drug-resistant.
In 1967 he became the chairman of the medical genetics division in the pediatrics department of UC San Francisco.
In 2020, Sacco was named editor-in-chief of the Stroke journal and the inaugural recipient of the Edgar J.
Career Mitchell joined the faculty at the University of Missouri as an assistant professor of medicine and was the recipient of their 1991 Distinguished Service Award.
He graduated from Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons in 1985 with a Medical Doctorate.
She started working at Nature Reviews in 2010 and has worked in Nature Reviews Rheumatology and also Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology where she became the chief editor in 2014.
In 1998, Bhakdi and his team of colleagues put forward the "Mainz hypothesis" that atherosclerosis is only caused monocausally by the lack of removal of LDL.
According to the book the consumer price of cheap meat does not include the overall costs of industrial meat production.
Early on, over 300 of them were consolidated into a multidistrict litigation called In re: Roundup Products Liability.
Man and Nature: Or, Physical Geography as Modified by Human Action, first published in 1864, was written by American polymath scholar and diplomat George Perkins Marsh (1801–1882).
Also required was the execution or exile of government supporters of the Boxers and the destruction of Chinese forts and other defenses in much of northern China.
On January 22, 2024 the DENR has issued a violation notice due to the resort operating without an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC).
The settling among limitless expanses of Bălți steppe happened not "in accordance" with logic, but "against" it.
The book has received favorable reviews, including a description of its "simple straightforward explanations" for a "full course in single-source dispersive modeling".
In Taiwan he visits a farm (labelled "organic") where 300,000 laying hens are being starved and held in batteries.
Julius Natterer, (December 5, 1938 – October 25, 2021), was a German engineer and professor of wood construction at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne.
The Universal Declaration of Human RIghts, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, sets out fundamental human rights that should be afforded to all people, and was the first document to do so.
Marie, the Thunder Bay Museum in Thunder Bay, the Lake of the Woods Discovery Centre in Kenora, and the Cochrane Public Library in Cochrane.
Many areas of the Beijing city wall were torn down in the 1960s to make way for the construction of the Beijing Subway and the 2nd Ring Road.
The Gorilla Project refers to a former plan for construction of the first major oil refinery in the United States in over 30 years.
Thus, permit holders can proceed with an activity, such as construction or other economic development, that may result in the "incidental" taking of a listed species.
The claims have received support by a study using dogs as a "sentinel species to approximate human exposure to a selection of chemical mixtures present in the environment".
Thesis Muir makes a complex, Malthusian argument for the origin of an industrial revolution in New England independent of the English industrial revolution.
Energy policy Energy policy is the manner in which a given entity (often governmental) has decided to address issues of energy development including energy production, distribution and consumption.
The Annual Environmental Media Awards have been presented by the Environmental Media Association (EMA) since 1991 to the best television episode or film with an environmental message.
Overlapping environmental, social, and economic forces such as the 1973 energy crisis and popularisation of the concept of globalisation helped bring Schumacher's Small Is Beautiful critiques of mainstream economics to a wider audience during the 1970s.
The coast of Patagonia is rich in animal life: elephant seals, fur seals, sea lions and species of penguin.
Antiandrogenic endocrine disruption has been shown in aquatic species, but the mechanism is unknown.
"Children and Trees Growing Together, A Future for Both', was the theme of the project between BELRIV and the mahogany plantation.
More than four years after the book's first publication, a hardcover "Deluxe Edition" was released through Heyday in November 2020.
Nearly all of Croatia's groundwater aquifers are top quality, unlike the available surface water; the latter's quality varies in terms of biochemical oxygen demand and bacteriological water analysis results.
This means that their near-future projections of regional impacts are likely to contain errors as well.
This causes phosphates to be brought up to the metalimnion and give organisms an abundance of phosphates, exacerbating the likelihood for algal blooms.
In 1980 the International Union for Conservation of Nature had published its influential World Conservation Strategy, followed in 1982 by its World Charter for Nature, which drew attention to the decline of the world's ecosystems.
Environment Using water for domestic, food and industrial uses has major impacts on ecosystems in many parts of the world.
The training programmes are usually as short as the standards allow, and do not provide more than a basic mention of diver impact on the underwater environment and methods to minimise that impact.
'High High or Tall Tall') was a male giant panda formerly at the San Diego Zoo from 2003 to 2018 and was then returned to China.
The Shamba Raiders is an account of the struggle to preserve herds of game threatened by modern civilisation, poaching, war and the political and economic changes which have swept Africa in the middle of the last century.
This development has been deplored by activistic ecological economists as an 'incoherent', 'shallow' and overly 'pragmatic' slide.
The court ruled that the firm had concealed the problem when it was first unloaded from a ship in Amsterdam.
Coal waste is a consequence of this consumption; the Mine Safety and Health Administration has estimated that there are over 235 sludge ponds throughout the region with the potential to break into an underground mine, as the Martin County pond did in 2000.
There are sixteen chapters made up of the same number of articles, each dealing with a different topic of technological innovation in a variety of fields.
Furthermore, as this film was slightly soluble, it gradually washed away, leaving no way for marine life to attach itself to the ship.
It uses reverse osmotic pressure which encourages water to filter from high concentration of contamination to low concentrations of contamination through added pressure.
Near the turn of the century, Nr from guano and sodium nitrate deposits was harvested and exported from the arid Pacific islands and South American deserts.
UVC irradiation is a noncontact, nonchemical solution that can be used across a range of instruments.
After the first step the residual is sulfophenyl(di)carboxylates (SP(d)Cs), a large molecule which can be involved in the second step.
The plan had four main elements: consistent reports to the public and the Ministers, reducing Sulphur Dioxide in the seven provinces, promoting continuous scientific research and monitoring, and preventive measures for non-affected areas.
However, some approaches to restoring the forest may displace of a little less than 2,000 people who hold land deeds in the forest.
Death Gao Gao died on 24 November 2025, at approximately 33 years of age, at the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in Sichuan, China.
Ducts can be fabricated from a variety of materials including carbon steel, stainless steel, PVC, and fiberglass.
SBC also formed a cooperative of women who live in Batan Grande that produce hand-felted animals to financially assist the local community as well as connect it with the conservation efforts.
The Economical Environmentalist is a book by Prashant Vaze about the effects of climate change and what practical measures can be taken to reduce the amount of energy one consumes.
In fact, due to long-term impacts on food webs, Nr inputs are widely considered the most critical pollution problem in marine systems.
During the biodegradation, several specific bacteria and oxygen are required in both omega-oxidation of the alkyl chain and the benzene ring cleaving process, so this biodegradation can only happen in aerobic conditions.
Properties The plasticrust samples from both locations were studied using fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy analysis.
In a statement they said the outcome was "consistent with the evidence in this case that Roundup does not cause cancer and is not responsible for the plaintiff's illness".
The panelists wrote that more study is needed on the contaminants inside the water tanks, that TEPCO only took small samples from a quarter of the tanks, which showed large variations in readings, and used commercial pellets, not tritium-exposed fish, as food source for its experiments.
Reasons for title The term "The Deniers" is controversial even among some of those profiled in the book, which often raises the question of why Solomon would choose it as the title for both his book and its related newspaper series.
Male rabbits exposed to vinclozolin in utero or during infancy did not show a sexual interest in females or did not ejaculate.
Lego's partnership with Shell dates back to the 1960s, although a fictional oil company called Octan featured as the corporation headed by the villain President Business in The Lego Movie.
Half of the top pesticides used in growing cotton in the US are deemed likely to be carcinogenic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
It is endemic to the Peruvian Andes and has been recorded in and near the Pui–Pui Protection Forest.
Other major firms that followed Nike in their pledge to not use arctic trade routes include Gap, H&M, Columbia, and Kering Group.
Many factors are taken into account when assessing conservation status—not simply the number of individuals remaining, but the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates, and known threats.
Other retailers, such as Patagonia, have made efforts to create more sustainable clothing by using eco-friendly materials, such as organically farmed cotton and polyester made from recycled plastic bottles.
Stunden Bower uses this unique context to focus on the development of liberalism on the Prairies, from the late nineteenth into the twentieth centuries, highlighting tensions between private property and state intervention and between agricultural development and wetland conservation.
The documentary then goes on to present NATO's bombing of Yugoslav chemical factories and oil refineries as "crimes against the environment".
It is possible that Hoechst wanted to avoid license fees for DDT to Schering or the original developer J.
Nearly 75% of Estonia's air pollution was reported to come from two oil shale-based thermal power stations operating near Narva.
The Shamba Raiders: Memories of a Game Warden is Bruce Kinloch's account of his experiences in late colonial East Africa.
He said the film was "more despair-inducing than instructive", but was optimistic about its possible impact on the fashion culture, citing the effect that films such as Super Size Me and Fast Food Nation had on the fast food industry.
Making exploitation of existing sites more efficient through investments or social and technical innovation EDCs are caused by the unfair distribution of environmental costs and benefits.
Consequently, in January 2017, the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed (SCoPAFF) of the European Commission DG "Health and food safety" decided to not renew its regulatory approval.
The main source of the haze has been smoke from fires occurring in Sumatra and Borneo which dispersed over a wide area.
Stochastic health effects occur by chance, generally occurring without a threshold level of dose, whose probability is proportional to the dose and whose severity is independent of the dose, such as cancer and genetic effects.
Impact of climate change Many families have lost their homes, fields and lives due to climate change in Serbia.
Bimetallic materials Bimetallic materials are materials that are made out of two different metals or alloys that are tightly bonded together.
It provides a measure of the pressure that a population places on the land available for agriculture.
Detailing the rise of Serbian president Aleksandar Vučić and several of his government's affairs, the film suggests that change is no longer a matter of choice, but a question of survival.
Some locations in Africa have also been the sourcing of dumping plastic waste from the Global North.
A COFR is issued to vessel operators once they have shown the can pay cleanup and damage costs up to the liability limits required by the Oil Pollution Act.
These chemicals have been known to produce extremely toxic byproducts, including dioxins and hexachlorobenzenes.
Carracino commented:"Well, I'd say maybe 80 percent of most of the waste shipped is being dumped illegal.
The book examines the history of settlement and farming in the unique landscape of southern Manitoba, notable for its poor drainage and thus high levels of moisture that contrast with the aridity of much of the Great Plains.
Avian studies The consumption of plants with unusual content of phytoestrogens, under drought conditions, has been shown to decrease fertility in quail.
These and other market factors frequently pull development to open land near traditionally desirable communities and away from urban infill sites.
We can put into place permeable streets and parking lots which help allow for the pollution from vehicles and other runoff nutrients to be soaked up and/or slowed.
Removing trees surrounding stream banks prevents shading of the water body, which raises the temperature of riverbanks and rivers.
Additionally, since alpine regions, where degradation typically occurs, are commonly of high elevation, they are more easily affected by climate and its changes.
Application for an incidental take permit are subject to certain requirements, including the preparation by the permit applicant of a conservation plan.
A 2000 review of the toxicological data on Roundup concluded that "for terrestrial uses of Roundup minimal acute and chronic risk was predicted for potentially exposed nontarget organisms".
The implementation of the framework guidelines is staggered until 2045, depending on the size of the sewage treatment plant and its population equivalents (PE).
This document has been criticized for setting unrealistic goals, and also, by focusing on the entire basin (south-west Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan), for implicitly giving up on the Aral Sea and the people living downstream in Karakalpakstan.
The Los Angeles Times' Martin Tsai criticized Morgan for interviewing his own executive producers, saying "the effects of fertilizers ...
The article stated that the list was made up for species that appear to be locally common in North America, but is undergoing non-cyclic declines.
In his Reasons and Persons, Derek Parfit was among the first to spell out and popularize this implication in the academic literature, coining it the "repugnant conclusion".
A kawaii mascot for the dump, Tritium-kun, was even created in hopes of improving public opinion on the issue; it was quickly scrapped after backlash.
Humanity's demand on the planet has more than doubled over the past 45 years as a result of population growth and increasing individual consumption.
For example, in northwestern Europe anthrosols commonly have plaggic or terric (strongly affected by manure) horizons, and together they cover some 500,000 hectares.
However Equatorial Guinea’s forest management has improved in recent years, with protected areas significantly increasing decreasing deforestation.
Ranks at various levels may be concatenated to combine geographical levels, and also to address infraspecific taxa (subspecies and plant varieties).
Types of plastics found in the Mediterranean Sea Plastics accounts for 80% of waste dispersed in the marine and coastal environment of the Mediterranean Sea.
As a field of practice, people working on conflict resolution focus on the collaboration, and consensus building among stakeholders.
Macdonald Prize (now the CHA Best Scholarly Book in Canadian History Prize) for the best book in Canadian history from the Canadian Historical Association, and was short-listed for the Association's 2010 François-Xavier Garneau Medal.
According to a Canadian Department of National Defence document acquired through the Access to Information Act, over 3.2 million liters and kilograms of chemical defoliants were used at the base between the years 1956 to 1984.
The book has four sections: "The Background", "The Problems", "The Technocures" and "The Way to Go".
delegation argued that a weapon, by definition, is any device used to injure, defeat, or destroy living beings, structures, or systems, and Agent Orange did not qualify under that definition.
Also labelled as household food production, is a traditional activity persisting in the countries of the Global North.
Synopsis The book is divided into three sections, titled "Torch", "Axe", and "Engine", roughly corresponding to the pre-contact, exploration, and industrial periods of Canadian history.
Cationic surfactant can bind to the inner membrane of bacteria, and by this way disorganize the bacteria through their long alkyl chain.
Uses The dominant use of perchlorates is as oxidizers in propellants for rockets, fireworks and highway flares.
It highlights the summer of 1969 when Davidson carved and raised a totem pole in his home village for the first time in nearly a century, marking the start of a "renaissance" for Indigenous art in popular culture.
Subsequent to their punitive victory, the British gradually colonised the area, eventually incorporating the region into Colonial Nigeria.
Abstracting and indexing According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 5.334.
These batteries have lower energy density and charge-discharge efficiency than lithium-ion batteries, but are significantly cheaper.
Against this background, cyberbiosecurity measures are becoming increasingly important to prevent or protect against the misuse of innovations in the life sciences, including to reduce the proliferation risk of biological weapons.
A report concluded that "plasticrust abundance may depend on the local levels of nearshore plastic debris, wave exposure and tidal amplitude." This was based on the abundance of plasticrusts compared to the other listed factors at each location where plasticrust was detected or searched for.
Black Faces, White Spaces challenges assumptions that the environmental movement makes about universal values, individualism, and agency, arguing that they reflect a class-based and racial power structure that denies participation from people of color.
Schuring, PhD and PE, professor of civil and environmental engineering at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, developed in conjunction with Thomas M.
The company estimates that the mine would take approximately 10 years to construct and would have an operational life of approximately 40 years which would be followed by 5 to 10 years of reclamation activities.
Exposure to these byproducts has been linked to increased cases in cancer and blood diseases, especially non-Hodgkin lymphoma and leukemia.
The documentary presents positive examples of countries that were able to change their political and economic systems but also shows stories of rebellion in Serbia itself, in which small groups of well-organized individuals were able to beat the system, which the author considers "rotten".
ports Civil penalties of up to $32,500 per day Seizure or forfeiture of the vessel See also Shoreline Managers == Notes ==
Hunters voiced concerns as did the Hawaiian Audubon Society who were supported by Governor George Ariyoshi.
Such chemicals include aminopurine, which induces an AT to GC transition, while nitrosoguanidine, bisulfite, and N4-hydroxycytidine may induce a GC to AT transition.
See also Captive breeding List of giant pandas List of individual bears Footnotes and references External links San Diego Zoo Giant Panda Research Station
In other words, Shifting Baselines suggests that the push to colonize Mars is, above all, a program to colonize our minds, to make it seem acceptable for governments to ignore the environmental catastrophes happening here and now.
Herman Daly's concept of a steady-state economy In the 1970s, Herman Daly became the world's leading proponent of a steady-state economy.
Safety Data Sheets (U.S.) Safety Data Sheets (SDS), or Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) as they are also known, are documents detailing Health and Safety-Related information regarding a chemical or substance.
It is likely that social and environmental issues will increasingly drive economic costs associated with supply and demand patterns.
During the phoretic stage, Varroa prefer to attach to nurse bees as this results in higher fitness leading into the reproductive stage.
In such a scenario, improvements in the well-being of one group or country may come at the expense of another, leading to conflict.
A Geography of Blood: Unearthing Memory from a Prairie Landscape is a 2012 book by Canadian author Candace Savage.
The book was instrumental in the designation of Adirondack Park in New York in 1892 and in the development of the United States National Forest from 1891 onwards.
Awards Amin Bhatia won the Canadian Screen Music Award for Best Original Score for a Short Film in 2023, and Brian Eimer was a Canadian Screen Award nominee for Best Sound Design in a Documentary at the 12th Canadian Screen Awards in 2024.
The rise of non-farming specialists such as craftsmen and scribes accelerated economic growth and technological progress.
Developed country citizens currently consume as much as 25 tonnes of those four key resources each year, while the average person in India consumes four tonnes annually.
In late 2022, several environmental organizations in Canada filled a complaint with the Canadian Competition Bureau that the SFI was engaged in misleading advertising practices by falsely claiming that it's certifications did not promote sustainable forestry.
Furthermore, these conditions can lead to food and water insecurity, displacement and migration from coastal areas, an increase in transmission of water-borne diseases, and more.
He was a visiting lecturer for universities in many countries in particular – in the United States of America, Africa and Latin America.
Fuller states that for every 100,000 fellowships given out one person will come up with something so valuable that it will pay for the remaining 99,999 fellowships.
The name Beijing, which means 'Northern Capital' (from the Chinese characters 北 běi for 'north' and 京 jīng for 'capital'), was applied to the city in 1403 during the Ming dynasty to distinguish the city from Nanjing (南京, 'Southern Capital').
Reviewers at the Library Journal recommended the book for all environmental collections and the audiobook for most public and academic library audiobook collections.
As part of this framework, generic Soil Guideline Values (SGVs) have currently been derived for ten contaminants to be used as "intervention values".
BioWatch is a US government program to detect biological agents present in the environment through a system of filters.
Reception The book was reviewed in the journal Endangered Species, the ALA magazine Booklist, Publishers Weekly, Books in Canada, African Business, the Royal Geographical Society's Geographical magazine.
Practical relevance Population ethical problems are particularly likely to arise when making large-scale policy-decisions, but they can also affect how we should evaluate certain choices made by individuals.
The documentary starred environmentalists like Wangari Maathai, Vandana Shiva, Gary Vaynerchuk, Paul Stamets, and Bill Logan.
If the resulting chimeric mouse contained the genetic change in their germline, this could then be passed on offspring.
These barriers are effective in relatively level water, however; any significant waves allow contaminants to escape the boom and impact the surrounding environment.
Due to in many places drinking water is also extracted from surface waters, or the substances also reach the groundwater via the water, they are also found in raw water and must be laboriously removed by drinking water treatment.
Health effects are an important consideration in many areas, such as hygiene, pollution studies, occupational safety and health, ([nutrition]) and health sciences in general.
Although ketoconazole is a relatively weak antiandrogen, high doses side-effects lead to reduced levels of androgens from both the testicles and adrenal glands.
The coastal development project includes the construction of a giant seawall along the coast, building a water reservoir, and the reclamation of land.
Rather than give credence to claims of innate European superiority and the like, Crosby explains the relative ease with which Europeans conquered the Neo-Europes as being a product of biological and ecological processes.
Wet Prairie: People, Land, and Water in Agricultural Manitoba is a 2011 book by Canadian historian Shannon Stunden Bower.
Storage or uptake of a metal faster than it is metabolized and excreted leads to the accumulation of that metal.
Thus European whalers (the Basques, especially, were known for their expertise) had to seek out the New World to catch whales.
With this category system, Near Threatened and Conservation Dependent were both subcategories of the category "Lower Risk".
— The legal status of Northback's proposal for the Grassy Mountain Coal Project was under scrutiny due to conflicting interpretations of its "advanced project" designation.
Common containment measures include secondary containment structures (such as berms, dikes, and trays), absorbent materials, drainage controls, and portable containment systems.
Culture and livelihood of Sundarban residents Entire communities in the Sundarbans depend directly on the forest and its waterways for their livelihood, from fisheries to honey production.
Industrial exhaust ducts are pipe systems that connect hoods to industrial chimneys through other components of exhaust systems like fans, collectors, etc.
The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History is a 2014 nonfiction book written by Elizabeth Kolbert and published by Henry Holt and Company.
Article types The journal publishes full research papers, communications, perspectives, critical reviews, frontier reviews, tutorial reviews, comments, and highlights.
Such a ban has been in place in Munich, Germany, since 1991, applying to all city facilities and events.
Homologous recombination Homologous recombination can be used to produce specific mutation in an organism.
There is also a lack of documentation and understanding of climate change in Serbia and its potential impacts on biodiversity.
To the south are located the Bălți Plain and the Middle Prut Plain, with an average of 200 meters (656 ft) and a maximum altitude of 250 meters (820 ft).
Justice Brennan also expressed concern that the Court was extending patent protections into areas not expressly authorized by Congress and that this constituted an inappropriate extension of monopoly patent power.
At a few places above 1,500 meters, the remnants of juniper forests (protected by the state) and areas of Euphorbia candelabrum (a chandelier-type spiny plant) occur.
Dietary intake of isoflavones at levels greater than in typical Asian diets does not affect estrogen, testosterone, sperm or semen amounts.
A definitive link between fine particulate pollution and higher death rates in urban areas was established by the Harvard Six Cities study, published in 1993.
The main theme of the documentary is a song called "One Candle" featuring the vocals of Australian singer-songwriter, Sia.
By returning shipments on standard shipping, the positive contribution to environment is being taken back.
See also Conservation status Listing priority number References External links https://explorer.natureserve.org/
See also List of environmental books References https://web.archive.org/web/20170328014135/http://www.temple.edu/tempress/titles/1788_reg.html External links https://web.archive.org/web/20170328014135/http://www.temple.edu/tempress/titles/1788_reg.html
This ruling led to the immediate suspension of various projects (mainly housing, which aggravated the ongoing Dutch housing shortage), and the government had to urgently seek solutions.
After years of trying in vain to decontaminate the ship enough that it could be safely sold for scrap, the Navy ultimately packed the ship full of nuclear waste and scuttled the radioactive hulk off California near the Farallon Islands in January 1951.
Reviewer David Brownstein called the book a "marvellously encyclopedic synthesis of a vast secondary literature on a complex topic." Reviewed in BC Studies, Philip Van Huizen praised the "elegant and evocative" writing of the author, as well as his use of narrative.
In mprinciple, ISCR can be used to remediate a variety of organic compounds, including some that are resistant to natural degradation.
Gene silencing For gene knockout investigations, RNA interference (RNAi), a more recent method, also known as gene silencing, has gained popularity.
Focusing on the decades following 1790, she argues that families had accumulated wealth to set their children up on farms, but that land was not available until after the federal government broke the armed strength of Tecumseh in the Ohio country.
Artificially restored forests, in particular, are highly unlikely to compare to their old-growth counterparts in species composition.
Licorice, or Glycyrrhiza glabra native to southern Europe, India, and parts of Asia has shown antiandrogen activity in male rats.
Northwest of it are the Ciulucului Hills (average 250 meters or 820 feet, max 388 meters or 1,273 feet).
Article 7 controversy Article 7 of the document, entitled, "Obligation not to cause significant harm," requires that member states "in utilizing an international watercourse in their territories ...
This list contains media that discuss the intersection of veganism and/or a plant-based diet with nutrition, health, ethics, and environmentalism/climate change.
Summary The film traces Davidson's artistic career from his youth in Haida Gwaii and Vancouver studying with masters such as Bill Reid, and follows his education in the arts and in the history of the Indigenous Haida people from whom he is descended.
She highlights this expanding bureaucratic and scientific state presence as being part of a larger process of "rural colonization," but also shows how private groups and individuals continued to play an important role in adapting and implementing conservation practices.
Biosurveillance is an aspect of biodefense relating to the detection of biological threats, including bioterrorist threats.
Applications Nonylphenol is used in manufacturing antioxidants, lubricating oil additives, laundry and dish detergents, emulsifiers, and solubilizers.
The same soil may achieve several successive steady state conditions during its existence, as exhibited by the Pygmy forest sequence in Mendocino County, California.
The Big Island is a rural community and there are a lot of people there who are not very sophisticated, as you know.
Since these rivers are being threatened at their source, they are not providing as much water for the many people that need it further downriver.
The land contains more than 2,400 acres (970 ha) of the Oak Flat Campground, an area dotted with petroglyphs and historic and prehistoric sites.
Village heads are receiving funds from company executives and this has led to hesitation among local residents to speak up.
Accountability and personnel The Minister of State for Social Care at the Department of Health and Social Care, Helen Whately, has oversight of the JBC.
Bisphenol AF (BPAF) is a fluorinated organic compound that is an analogue of bisphenol A in which the two methyl groups are replaced with trifluoromethyl groups.
Levels are generally low, but can be elevated in buildings with "leaky" foundations or areas with soils rich in uranium.
Because we have found a new source of energy, and destruction, in the atomic nucleus, we face the threat of nuclear war or, even if we avoid that, the permeation of our environment with dangerous radiation and nuclear wastes.
Ducts are low-pressure pneumatic conveyors to convey dust, particles, shavings, fumes, or chemical hazardous components from air in the vicinity to a shop floor or any other specific locations like tanks, sanding machines, or laboratory hoods.
Limitations The National Institutes of Health discusses some important limitations of this technique.
Ultimately, Loo argues that wildlife conservation was shaped by, and ultimately shaped in turn, Canadians' values about their relationship with the natural world.
Slaughter tapping is an obsolete method of extracting large quantities of natural latex from rubber trees in a forest environment.
Transboundary air pollution occurs when pollution created in one country negatively impacting another country.
Awards 2009 - American Society of Landscape Architects Honor Research Award 2011 - Society for Ecological Restoration Theodore M.
Working with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) they then produced the Global Tree Assessment which concluded that more than 17,500 tree species (c.30%) are threatened with extinction.
Known events A fern spike followed a fungal spike after the Permian–Triassic extinction event (252 Ma).
It comes from standard French liane, itself from an Antilles French dialect word meaning 'to sheave'.
Previously the endangered painted hunting dog, Lycaon pictus, occurred in Burkina Faso within the Arly-Singou ecosystem, but, although last sightings were made in Arli National Park, the species is considered extirpated throughout Burkina Faso.
At UNESCO, Brito leads global programmes across biosphere reserves, hydrology, earth sciences, science policy, and basic sciences, guiding the organization’s work on sustainability, climate resilience, and science capacity worldwide.
In Europe there are no dedicated epiphytic plants using roots, but rich assemblages of mosses and lichens grow on trees in damp areas (mainly the western coastal fringe), and the common polypody fern grows epiphytically along branches.
Australia In the state of South Australia, oyster reefs mostly created by the Australian flat oyster (Ostrea angasi, or Southern mud oyster) once spread along 1,500 kilometres (930 mi) of coastline, but by the 21st century, there were none left.
History In 1970, royal approval designated the establishment of Langtang National Park as the first protected area in the Himalayas.
λxj(t) will be determined by many things, including habitat, intraspecific competition, and interspecific competition at x.
Fluorescence provides information on overall photosynthetic performance with implications for related carbon sequestration.
MacArthur Foundation Fellowship (2021) Citation for Leadership and Achievement, Council for Scientific Society Presidents (2022) AAAS Fellow in the section on Agriculture, Food & Renewable Resources (2024) Top Agri-food Pioneer, World Food Prize Foundation (2024) == References ==
Alien plants in temperate weed communities: prehistoric and recent invaders occupy different habitats.
To obtain gnotobiotic plants, researchers sterilize seeds using chemical agents (e.g., ethanol, sodium hypochlorite (bleach), hydrogen peroxide) on the surface of the seed.
Firstly, flowers communicate with their pollinators by scent; insects use this scent to determine how far away a flower is, to approach it, and to identify where to land and finally to feed.
The fly is viviparous, which means the female gives birth directly to live maggots, the larvae, as opposed to giving birth to eggs that later form into larvae.
The Herbarium is an active correspondent to the Inventory of Rare and Endangered Vascular Plants of California, a list of endangered plants published by the California Native Plant Society (CNPS).
Reasons why marine animals go extinct include interactions with fisheries, capturing, pollution, habitat degradation, climate change, and overharvesting.
An area that has many functions, such as human living space, and is home to other living things, whether plant or animal, can be considered a biosphere reserve.
The United Nations began preparatory meetings in 2004 to lay the foundation for an Implementing Agreement to UNCLOS addressing governance and regulatory gaps.
Project goal In the long term, sustainable use of the soil must be guaranteed in order to meet the needs of the world's population.
He is a professor of biology and environmental science and regional planning at Washington State University.[1] and was past president (1988-1990) of the Society for Human Ecology.
To inhibit additional sand encroachment, the Ngari Prefecture formally initiated the Shiquan River Sand Control Project (Chinese: 狮泉河盆地生物防沙治沙工程) in 1994.
In recent years, progress has been made in the UK to set up allowances and less stringent tests for heritage varieties on a B national list, but this is still under consideration.
The most common one is that the allele is soon lost altogether, but the other possibility is that the allele survives and within a few generations has become much more dispersed throughout the population.
Evolutionary, if two species are more similar than some limit L, a third species will converge towards the nearer of the two competitors.
In addition, the Herbarium's active collection program generates thousands of additional specimens a year.
Jasmonic acid induces the release of VOCs and EFN which attract parasitic wasps and predatory mites to detect and feed on herbivores.
She worked there until the founding of the Department of Biology at the Faculty of Philosophy in Sarajevo (1954).
For instance, epiphytes on tree trunks in rain forests are aided by the trees because they provide a surface for their growth.
Bradley Anholt is a Canadian ecologist, currently a Canada Research Chair in experimental ecology at University of Victoria.
Phosphorus is important for all organisms because it is a component of DNA and RNA and is involved in cell metabolism as a component of ATP and ADP.
This is overseen by the NBN Trust which is responsible for the NBN Gateway which in May 2016 passed 127 million records.
In political economy Some scholars have applied coevolution to propose non-linear theories in political economy.
Papers reflect results of original research (major papers, short communications) or review important fields in tropical ecology.
Pagophila is maintained as a unique genus because of the bird's morphological, behavioural and ecological differences from these species.
The best known methods for constructing utilization distributions are the so-called bivariate Gaussian or normal distribution kernel density methods.
Other reasons that follow this are overexploitation, invasive species, pollution, and climate change.
These two scenarios represent potential mechanisms in which viruses can be introduced into new marine environments.
River Murray and associated wetlands, floodplains and groundwater systems, from the junction with the Darling River to the sea, approval disallowed.
The ABMP will facilitate comparisons among geographic regions, and will feed information into an adaptive management process so that resource managers can evaluate long-term sustainability of biodiversity and natural resources.
The forests of northern Albania are similar to those of Continental Europe, in contrast, the forests of southern Albania share similarities with those of the Mediterranean Basin.
Heirloom varieties are an increasingly popular way for gardeners and small farmers to connect with traditional forms of agriculture and the crops grown in these systems.
Effects range from disruption of migration and travel to hunting sites, finding and accessing roosts, and foraging behaviour.
The bark pH, degree of bark shedding, the presence of milk sap and the density and size of bark lenticels influence the occurrence of epiphytes.
Ecolo Japan is a political think tank/Institute, which aims to expand Green politics all over the country.
This two-pronged approach of increasing local supply and balancing trade between regions represents a comprehensive management of global water resources that only these decentralized treatments allow in a way similar to the carbon offset market.
Reynolds , limnetic ecology 1995 Ramon Margalef , marine ecology 1996 John Lawton , terrestrial ecology 1997 Maciej Gliwicz , limnetic ecology 1998 Richard T.
It is often markedly different from the terrain either side and may consist of a morass of shrubs and murky water.
For example, several tens of kilometers of the former coastal railway of the Chemins de Fer de Provence have been converted into a cycle path between Toulon and Pramousquier (in the municipality of Le Lavandou).
This can lead to significant consequences, with entire ecosystems being profoundly impacted and sometimes simplified due to prolonged overshoot.
The most popular, which invokes the disruptive selection model, was first put forward by John Maynard Smith in 1966.
Coffin flies have been found on corpses years after death, and in 2011 an exhumed coffin in central Spain revealed a large number of coffin flies inhabiting the coffin and feeding on the cadaver 18 years after death—far beyond the 3–5 year postmortem intervals previously recorded.
The soil is often shallow and can be toxic due to high heavy metal concentrations such as nickel, cobalt and chromium.
The VCR/LTER project's research activities focus on the mosaic of transitions and steady-state systems that comprise the barrier-island/lagoon/mainland landscape of the Eastern Shore of Virginia.
Reyniers, early work at LOBUND focused on obtaining gnotobiotes by sterilizing animals and maintaining the animals using high-pressure steam sterilized steel isolators; however, later work at the institute shifted the focus of the field towards establishing colonies of animals born germ-free.
Text taken from Global Forest Resources Assessment 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
Silvilization is a conceptual framework or a vision of the world whereby the forest, a metaphor for primordial living, is the best place for human development and fulfilment.
Invasive species and other disturbances have become more common in forests in the last several decades.
Far more students participated in field courses, collecting data for more than 40 diploma, masters, bachelors and Ph.D.
A simple example of this is permutation, which was first described in plants, where shapes or colors of seeds can alter a homologous allele.
the net worth of our planet, is a debated concept both in terms of the definition of value, as well as the scope of "Earth".
The goal of CERES is to improve environmental analysis and planning by integrating natural and cultural resource information from multiple sources, then making it available on the World Wide Web.
The price on the services that the world's ecosystems provide to humans has been estimated in 1997 to be $33 trillion per annum, with a confidence interval of from $16 trillion to $54 trillion.
Methods to restore coral reefs have involved the gardening and transplanting of coral developed at different sites to locations previously inhabited by coral, as well as the use of green engineering methods to help the coral become more suited to the changing environment.
Established by the Maryland Reef Initiative in 2001, this reef covers 1.3 square nautical miles of ocean floor and is located 80 feet (24.4 m) below the surface.
Contributions The FMAP project coordinated major data synthesis efforts to derive global trends and patterns in marine biodiversity.
Criticisms were addressed in a later publication, which gave an estimate of $125 trillion/yr for ecosystem services in 2011, which would make them twice as valuable as the GDP, with a yearly loss of 4.3–20.2 trillion/yr.
They are classified as family heirlooms, commercial heirlooms, mystery heirlooms, or created heirlooms.
A successful application for a research grant by Linsenmair at the Fritz Thyssen Foundation led to the expansion and transformation into a permanent station, after various bureaucratic hurdles in Germany and Côte d'Ivoire, which delayed the construction of the field station approximately 8 years.
The 2022 United Nations Biodiversity Conference emphasised the importance of global collaboration to halt biodiversity loss, marking the adoption of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF).
These models can be fit using binomial generalized linear models or binomial generalized linear mixed models, with the resources, or environmental and geographic data, as explanatory variables.
The Woman represents The Mother Earth, who provides us with food, shelter and every basic necessity of human and other living creatures.
Martin, published "Neotropical Anachronisms: The Fruits the Gomphotheres Ate" in the journal Science.
With few exceptions, all the practitioners of eusociality are insects of the orders Hymenoptera (ants, bees, and wasps), Isoptera (termites), Thysanoptera (thrips), and Hemiptera (aphids).
Sediment and Nutrient Trapping – Sediment and nutrient trapping is achieved by constructing or placing structures designed to slow water flow and promote the buildup of sediment.
Challenges with the GBF are expected to arise due with unequal implementation due to a lack of specificity.
Since 2023, with the support of Costa Salvaje and the National Commission of Natural Protected Areas (CONANP), the Guardians have implemented a monthly monitoring program in the mangroves, recording the condition of the three types of mangroves, red, white and black.
Sandveld and hardveld Sandveld Sandveld, in the general sense of the word, is a type of veld characterised by dry, sandy soil, typical of certain areas of the Southern African region.
"Interannual changes in seafloor surficial geology at an artificial reef site on the inner continental shelf".
Civil and corporate responsibilities aim to control resource consumption and manage waste to achieve a net positive impact.
clarkii is eaten in China, Cambodia, Thailand, Europe, Africa, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the Caribbean.
It has been used as a bioindicator/indicator species to study levels of the metals selenium, copper and cadmium.
Notably, in 2006, the region was designated as a Marine Protected Area (MPA) with the dual objectives of safeguarding indigenous oyster populations and conserving Tamarix species.
Description A lagg is an area of wetland, especially at the edge of raised bogs, in which water collects.
Thermophytes are able to survive extreme temperatures as their cells contain an “unorganized nucleus”.
Particle analysis Particle levels in water (or air) can be measured with a turbidity meter and analyzed with a particle counter.
The ammonia could be converted to nitrogen by introducing bacteria such as Nitrosomonas, Pseudomonas and Clostridium, resulting in an Earth-like nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere.
However, a direct correlation between organic matter deposition rates and SMTZ depth has yet to be established.
This means using practices that promote the sustainable use of natural ingredients, while ensuring that all contributors along the supply chain are paid fair prices and share the benefits derived from the use of biodiversity.
The etymological origin is older modern Dutch veldt, a spelling that the Dutch abandoned in favour of veld during the 19th century, decades before the first Afrikaans dictionary.
Significance Because fern spikes generally coincide with certain disasters such as meteorite strikes and volcanic eruptions, their presence in the fossil record can indicate those events.
The Green Score City Index is an ongoing empirical study of the anthropogenic impacts cities exert on land and ecosystems within city limits.
Hutchinson concluded that the mean ratio, 1.3, can be understood as the variation of attribute separation needed in order to preserve species coexistence at the same trophic level but in differing niches.
Ecology Trees are an important part of the terrestrial ecosystem, providing essential habitats including many kinds of forest for communities of organisms.
Haeckel also explains that with one ecosystem, its biota is shaped by environmental factors (such as water, soil, and geographical features) and interaction among living things; the original idea of a biotope was closely related to evolutional theory.
For the European Union, land take is estimated approximately about to 1.2 million hectares in 21 EU countries over the period 1990–2006.
As these toxins are passed up the food chain they accumulate in fatty tissue and become increasingly concentrated in predators (see bioaccumulation).
The founding editor was Bai-Lian (Larry) Li (University of California at Riverside) and the current editor-in-chief is Sergei Petrovskii (University of Leicester).
Importance of nativity in conservation When ecological restoration projects are undertaken to a native ecological system disturbed by economic development or other events, they may be historically inaccurate, incomplete, or pay little or no attention to ecotype accuracy or type conversions.
The range includes a portion of California grassland and California woodlands with blue oak, interior live oak, and bull pine.
In 2017, Mamane was awarded the United Nations Environment Programme Young Champions of the Earth Prize.
The tail may measure 121.5 to 161 mm (4.78 to 6.34 in) in males and 143.5 to 165 mm (5.65 to 6.50 in) in females, with 1,408 owls averaging 146.3 mm (5.76 in).
The name was coined by Jared Diamond in 1974, as an allusion to both the itinerant lifestyle of the tramp, and the then-popular band Supertramp.
The theory While the capacity for acclimatization has been documented in thousands of species, researchers still know very little about how and why organisms acclimate in the way that they do.
94% of microplastic items present in the Mediterranean Sea are thought to be in the seabed, 5% on beaches and 1% on surface waters.
In informal classification In addition to its use in ecology, the term "forb" may be used for subdividing popular guides to wildflowers, distinguishing them from other categories such as grasses, sedges, shrubs, and trees.
Targeted monitoring and enforcement was put forward as an explanation of the Harrington paradox by Winston Harrington in his 1988 article.
In the matter of death by poisoning, the putrefaction of the body is chemically delayed by poisons such as antimony, arsenic, carbolic acid (phenol), nux vomica (plant), strychnine (pesticide), and zinc chloride.
"First account on the diversity of Ophryotrocha (Annelida, Dorvilleidae) from a mammal-fall in the deep-Atlantic Ocean with the description of three new species." Systematics and Biodiversity 13.6 (2015): 555-570.
Joel Kwamena Abraham is an American ecologist and professor at California State University Fullerton.
Biocompatible planet (BP): A planet possessing the necessary physical parameters for life to flourish on its surface.
Determining if a system is scaling with allometry To determine whether isometry or allometry is present, an expected relationship between variables needs to be determined to compare data to.
External links International Year of Biodiversity Convention on Biological Diversity Internet sources for the International Year of Biodiversity (by vifabio)
Species migration Species naturally migrate and expand their ranges, utilising new habitats and resources, e.g.
In captivity, they have lived 10 to 12 years; while the average lifespan of a wild kit fox is 5.5 years.
There are carnivorous plants as well as herbivores and carnivores that consume plants and animals, respectively.
They became known by the present name on 18 December 2003 after Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam joined the organisation between 1995 and 1999.
Usage FACE circles have been used across in parts of the United States in temperate forests and also in stands of aspen in Italy.
In certain contexts in ecology, guild membership may often be more important than the taxonomic relationships between organisms.
Scientific highlights New discovered method estimates that Earth is home to 8.7 million species, of which 2.1 million live in the ocean.
This is an example of a plant which makes rapid growth and suppresses other species by monopolising root and shoot space and shading out the opposition.
As the larvae are placed in the test tubes to explore the container thoroughly, they relate visual cues to tactile stimuli and distinguish between a closed and an open container.
In 2016, the International Astronomical Union named a 9.8km wide crater on Mars after the village, as a tribute.
Foster proposed the simple explanation that smaller creatures get larger when predation pressure is relaxed because of the absence of some of the predators of the mainland, and larger creatures become smaller when food resources are limited because of land area constraints.
A large amount of thermophytes are algae, more specifically blue-green algae, also referred to as cyanobacteria.
Lidia Arthur Brito was appointed UNESCO Assistant Director General for Natural Sciences in November 2023.
It also works closely together with the park management (OIPR, Office Ivorien des Parcs et Reserves) on matters of conservation.
Size and scope The total project cost for Earthpark was estimated to be $155 million, though over a third of that financial demand was met.
Darkling beetles (tenebrionids), woodlice, and banana moth larvae are also facultative scavengers of dead plant material.
Education Kleindorfer holds a bachelor's degree in Biological Basis of Behavior from the University of Pennsylvania, a PhD in Zoology from the University of Vienna, and a postdoc in Medicine from the University of Washington School of Medicine.
Pompton Lakes History- The EWA is currently pushing for a Superfund status for Pompton Lakes, a community located in northern New Jersey.
This widespread misinterpretation has led to several articles being published which detail what the LPI does and doesn't show, and how to correctly interpret the trend.
They later tried to network with NGOs for human rights, international cooperation and sustainable development.
A metasystem transition is the emergence, through evolution, of a higher level of organization or control.
Australia Although once hunted extensively for its fur, the common brushtail possum is largely protected throughout Australia.
Alliance for Zero Extinction is an initiative of scientific organizations and conservation groups who co-operate to focus on the most threatened endemic species of the world.
Primary production is often measured using three variables: the biomass (or amount in weight) of the phytoplankton, the availability of light, and the rate of carbon fixation.
However, they can only implement measures within their own respective mandates and cooperation is lacking.
The forest reserve was degazetted a number of times and subsequent development brought down the size of the reserve to a 857-acre (3.5 km2).
In addition, respiration costs with respect to oxygen consumption is scaled in the order of M 0.75 {\displaystyle M^{0.75}} .
The Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring Institute (ABMI) is the key component of the Joint Canada-Alberta Monitoring Plan.
A team of more that 20 scientists identified protocols to survey a broad diversity of biota, habitat structures, vegetation communities, and landscapes patterns within Alberta.
The main tool to accomplish this to date has been to pay farmers directly to set-aside portions of their land that would otherwise be in production.
The Red Queen hypothesis predicts that sexual reproduction allows a host to stay just ahead of its parasite, similar to the Red Queen's race in Through the Looking-Glass: "it takes all the running you can do, to keep in the same place".
During Hasegawa's doctoral studies at the University of Tokyo, she also studied Japanese macaques, as well as Tanzanian chimpanzees.
It is a partnership between the North Pennines Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty Partnership, Yorkshire Peat Partnership and the Moors for the Future Partnership.
Plant patents are based on the Plant Patent Act of 1930, which protects plants grown from cuttings and division, while under intellectual property rights, the Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970 (PVPA) shields non-hybrid, seed-propagated plants.
Trampling on open ground can destroy the above ground parts of many plants and can compact the soil, thereby creating a distinct microenvironment that specific species may be adapted for.
It appears in environmental economics as an aggregation of the (main function based) values provided by a given ecosystem.
In France, the term voies vertes tends to overlap with that of the voies vertes in the cycle route and voies vertes network.
Erkki Pulliainen, an MP of the Green League, in collaboration with Maltais and the University of Helsinki, implemented the interdisciplinary ESSOC project (“Ecological Sylvilisation and Survival with the Aid of Original Cultures”) in 1991.
At the foot of the rand, the water collects and meets the water of the surrounding area on the boundary between the peat soil and mineral soil.
Often much of this information is lost or distorted by the fossilization process or diagenesis of the enclosing sediments, making interpretation difficult.
However, recent studies have shown that meteorological factors and seasonality influence the composition of airborne bacterial communities.
Copley currently works for the Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources for the Government of South Australia.
Artificial lighting also attracts a greater density of piscivorous fish, which have an advantage due to the slower movement of the juvenile fish.
These species can have various adaptations such as deciduousness or semi-deciduousness, reduced leaf size, thick leathery leaves (sclerophylly), sharp thorns or leaf margins and prickles.
The megafaunal dispersal syndrome refers to those attributes of fruits that evolved in order to attract megafauna (animals that weigh or weighed more than 44 kilograms) as primary dispersal agents.
Assemblages of species associated with open-coast salt-wedge estuaries of western and central Victoria ecological community, endangered.
However, they have been seen to occasionally employ more energy-inefficient pursuit predation tactics on flightless geese.
coloniensis glides along the substrate and produce filopodia, which are used to engulf particles associated with the substrate.
Breckle (1986), "Spezielle Ökologie der Gemäßigten und Arktischen Zonen Euro-Nordasiens", Ökologie der Erde (in German), vol.
Most Australian woody plant species are evergreen and many are adapted to fire and drought, including many eucalyptus and acacias.
His research focuses on endemism in the herpetofauna of the biogeographic region of Pantepui in northern South America, particularly the tepui mountains of Venezuela.
This reduced dentition in vermivorous mammals is said to be due to relaxed selectional pressure on dental occlusion.
This helps locate the L-3-glycerophosphate-flavoprotein oxidoreductase, which is on the inner membrane of the mitochondria.
They do not emerge from the den until they are at least four weeks old, and are weaned after about eight weeks and become independent at five to six months old.
Task allocation and partitioning gives rise to the division of labor often observed in social insect colonies, whereby individuals specialize on different tasks within the colony (e.g., "foragers", "nurses").
A lagg, also called a moat, is the very wet zone on the perimeter of peatland or a bog where water from the adjacent upland collects and flows slowly around the main peat mass.
The estimates for the global biomass of prokaryotes had changed significantly over recent decades, as more data became available.
Copley was awarded a Public Service Medal in 2019 "for outstanding public service to conservation and the environment, and to biodiversity research and policy development, in South Australia." == References ==
(2002) claims that the new non-spatial definition is lacking in an ability to settle the debate about whether sympatric speciation regularly occurs in nature.
Instead biotopes need to be connected to each other and other surrounding life for without these connections to life-forms such as animals and plants, biotopes would not effectively work as a place in which diverse organisms live.
The boron cycle is the biogeochemical cycle of boron through the atmosphere, lithosphere, biosphere, and hydrosphere.
Members commit to gradually ensuring that their sourcing practices promote the conservation of biodiversity, respect traditional knowledge and assure the equitable sharing of benefits all along the supply chain, following the Ethical BioTrade Standard.
Fauna Animals that live in these forests include foxes, deer, rabbits, tree frogs, raccoons, toads, silver-back gorillas, and painted buntings.
However, nutrient depletion can also happen within organisms, as nutrients are usually the first link in the food chain.
Timeline Development On 19 November 2015, ESA has selected FLEX as the agency's eighth Earth Explorer mission.
The host sanction (HS) theory aims to understand how cooperation evolves and is maintained in a mutualistic relationship between organisms.
Gilg, Olivier; Strøm, Hallvard; Aebischer, Adrian; Gavrilo, Maria V.; Volkov, Andrei E.; Miljeteig, Cecilie; Sabard, Brigitte (2010).
Some of the physical places are remote or protected from development, others are deliberately located in cities or agricultural areas.
It has previously existed in Western Australia, South Australia, and the coast of New Zealand during the Middle Holocene.
Epigenetic inheritance Epigenetic inheritance is the phenomenon of inheritance of epigenetic marks on DNA, which are often induced by environmental factors.
Sperry Award 2015 - American Society of Landscape Architects Honor Communications Award References External links Rutgers profile
ASEAN Heritage Parks (AHP) are selected protected areas in the ASEAN region that are known for their unique biodiversity and ecosystems, wilderness and outstanding values in scenic, cultural, educational, research, recreational and tourism.
The word liana does not refer to a taxonomic grouping, but rather a habit of plant growth—much like tree or shrub.
In this location, precipitation falls mostly as rain rather than snow; and also precipitation occurs mostly in the summer The ecoregion known as the Pine Barrens are found to spread across much of the northeastern United States, primarily in the state of New Jersey.
The Wildlife Monographs is a peer-reviewed scientific journal devoted to the ecology of non-domesticated animal species.
Extraction: Vermivores will dig or peck their way to the worm or what til they come to the surface(usually at night or in the rain).
Depaving Ecocity Builders helped plan and provided support for a variety of small to medium-sized depaving projects in Berkeley.
Adult female coffin flies can burrow up to 2 meters (6.6 ft) into soil and enter coffins in order to lay eggs on or near the resting corpse.
The atmospheric transport of iron-rich dust can impact the ocean concentrations, enhancing the marine ecosystems productivity by fueling phytoplankton growth, increasing carbon uptake as well as the ocean-atmosphere CO2 exchange.
The term is used in botany and in vegetation ecology especially in relation to grasslands and understory.
This program places native bee hives on residential properties, assisting with pollination while increasing awareness of this insect.
Linda Leigh (Biosphere 2 member in the first sealed mission 1991-93), Phil Hawes (chief architect for the Biosphere 2), and Bernd Zabel (construction manager for the Biosphere 2 and member of the second sealed mission in 1994) were present for ingress and egress of these first missions.
Brandon island is one of at least thirty located on the Mauritian Cargados Carajos coral reef atoll system, part of a CEPF designated Key Biodiversity Area (KBA) of the Cargados Carajos in the Southwest Indian Ocean.
Organisms preferentially take up light 12C, and have a δ13C signature of about −25‰, depending on their metabolic pathway.
Curtiss distinguished professor in agricultural and life sciences by Iowa State University Awards and honors John D.
The larvae will remain in their egg membranes until they are totally developed, at which point they will break out and begin to feed.
Education and career Tignol was awarded a PhD (1988) at the Université catholique de Louvain for his thesis Involution bodies of finite rank at their center and with characteristic other than 21 written under the supervision of Jacques Tits.
He was able to reconstruct the Alexandrian Christian calendar and its origin from the Alexandrian Jewish calendar as of about the 4th century, at least 200 years prior to any other source for either calendar.
Today, his best known work is Über eine Klasse von Differentialsystemen beliebiger Ordnung mit festen kritischen Punkten (Crelle's Journal, 1912).
Publications Several books devoted to numbers and history of numbers and number related topics including: 1981: Histoire Universelle des Chiffres (Paris) English translation (1985): From one to zero.
in 1989 from Princeton University as a student of Charles Gillispie, with the thesis Studies on James Gregorie (1638–1675).
Due to his collaboration on a 1977 paper with the Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős, Wilson has an Erdős number of 1.
References External links Home page at Department ABC, Politecnico di Milano Living on a Fringe Environment, research project directed by Rossi Corinna Rossi publications indexed by Google Scholar
Yanovskaya, Adolf Pavlovich Yushkevich is 60 (in Russian), Russian Mathematical Surveys 22 (1967), 187–194.
Moore (November 2, 1936 – July 26, 2023) was an American mathematician who worked in the theory of operator algebras and topological groups.
At the University of Tel Aviv, Corry became in 1985 an instructor, in 1996 a lecturer, in 2004 an associate professor and from 2007 a full professor in the Cohn Institute for the History of Science.
Freudenthal, Hans (1960), Lincos: design of a language for cosmic intercourse, Studies in logic and the foundations of mathematics, North-Holland Pub.
Dietrich Mahnke (17 October 1884, Verden – 25 July 1939, Fürth) was a German philosopher and historian of mathematics.
With Janet Beery, she co-edited Thomas Harriot’s Doctrine of Triangular Numbers: the 'Magisteria Magna' (European Mathematical Society, 2009).
Textbooks 1987: Topics in Intermediate Algebra (Wiley) 1987: Developmental Mathematics: Arithmetic, Algebra, and Measurement Geometry (Wiley) 2003: Mathematics for High School Teachers: An Advanced Perspective (with Zalman Usiskin, Anthony Peressini, and Dick Stanley, Prentice Hall) == References ==
A member of the American Historical Association, he has also served as the president of the affiliated Organization of History Teachers, and of the East-Central American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies.
2000, Diagrammatic reasoning and modelling in the imagination: the secret weapons of the Scientific Revolution, in: 1543 and All That: Image and Word, Change and Continuity in the Proto-Scientific Revolution, ed.
McLarty has also written about the German algebraist Emmy Noether and her involvement with German political history.
Then in 1975 he became Professor of History of Natural Science and Mathematics at the University of Hamburg and Director of the Institute until he retired in 1995.
Howard Stein (January 21, 1929 – March 8, 2024) was an American philosopher and historian of science.
She held teaching positions at the University of Massachusetts Lowell, at Mount Holyoke College and at Arkansas State University before joining Saint Louis University, where for 25 years she was a professor of mathematics and computer science.
Education and career Huffman is the daughter of an accounting professor at Pittsburg State University, and majored in mathematics education at Pittsburg State University, where she graduated in 1986, continuing for a master's degree in 1987.
He headed the London School of Jewish Studies from 1971 to 1982, and the hesder yeshiva Birkat Moshe in Ma'ale Adumim from 1982 until his death.
On June 3, 1951, he was elected the corresponding member to the class of mathematical sciences of the Società Nazionale di Scienze Lettere e Arti in Napoli: subsequently, he became an ordinary member (2 June 1951) and ordinary non-resident member (15 December 1953).
In 1909 a chair in the history of philosophy in its relationship to the sciences was created for him at the Sorbonne.
Manekin and Hans Hinrich Biesterfeldt.) Verzeichniss der Hebräischen Handschriften der Königlichen Bibliothek zu Berlin.
His initial courses in Zurich were in civil engineering, but in his second year (under the influence of Karl Geiser) he switched to mathematics and physics.
Ore's early work on lattice theory led him to the study of equivalence and closure relations, Galois connections, and finally to graph theory, which occupied him to the end of his life.
ISBN 0-7679-2033-3 The Artist and the Mathematician: The Story of Nicolas Bourbaki, the Genius Mathematician Who Never Existed, 2007.
In the last years of his life, as Swami Vidyaranya, he lived mainly at Pushkar, a Hindu holy site in Rajasthan.
Eventually she returned to teaching, at Goldsmiths' College and then, in 1957, as head of mathematics at the Stockwell College of Education.
in Which Colored Diagrams Are Used Instead of Letters for the Greater Ease of Learners" in The American Mathematical Monthly.
She co-authored The Secret Lives of Numbers in 2023, a highly acclaimed work on the history of mathematics.
Academic career Roque is a professor at the Institute of Mathematics (IM) of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), with a Ph.D.
Education and career Cormack obtained her BA from the University of Calgary and her MA from the University of Toronto before earning her Ph.D.
Copeland is also President of the US Society for Machines and Mentality and a member of the UK Bletchley Park Trust Heritage Advisory Panel.
Hill (who joined Temple University's faculty in 1973) on the textbook Linear Algebra Labs with MATLAB.
References External links Feferman (Anita Burdman) Papers, Stanford University Archives, via Online Archive of California
Recognition Feferman was awarded Guggenheim Fellowships in 1972 and 1986 and the Rolf Schock Prize in logic and philosophy in 2003.
In this pre-war period in Amsterdam, he was promoted to lecturer at the University of Amsterdam, and married his wife, Suus Lutter, a Dutch teacher.
Chemla, "Adolf-Andrei Pavlovich Yushkevich (conversation recorded by Karine Chemla)", in Voprosy Istorii Estestvoznaniya i Techniki, 1994, s.a.
Neumann showed in 1997 that Alhazen's problem (reflecting a light ray off a spherical mirror to hit a target) cannot be solved with a straightedge and compass construction.
Life and work After graduating from high school in 1919 at the Wilhelm Gymnasium in Munich, Hofmann studied at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) with Walther von Dyck and George Faber, gaining a Ph.D.
After positions as lecturer and visiting associate professor at different institutions, Tiles became associate professor of philosophy at University of Hawaii at Manoa in 1989, and full professor in 1992.
Rowe: American Mathematics Comes of Age: 1875–1900, in Peter Duren (ed.): A Century of Mathematics in America.
With his former student Karl Faber, he wrote a book on the theory of partial differential equations of the first order using methods of Lie group theory.
See also American philosophy Axiomatic set theory S of Boolos (1989) General set theory, Boolos's axiomatic set theory just adequate for Peano and Robinson arithmetic.
Life Wussing graduated from high school, and from 1947 to 52 studied mathematics and physics at the University of Leipzig.
doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-599661-7.50019-7 in David Rowe, John McCleary (eds.) History of modern mathematics.
Folkerts (Ed.), Mathematische Probleme im Mittelalter: Der lateinische und arabische Sprachbereich, Wolfenbütteler Mittelalter-Studien Vol.
Life and work Bjørnbo was born Axel Anthon Christensen, in Copenhagen, the son of artist Anthonore Christensen and philologist Richard Christensen.
Zweiter Theil: Die analytische Geometrie des Raumes (1901), which went through several editions over two decades.
Pier was primarily responsible for the creation in January 1989 of the Luxembourg Mathematical Society, of which he was president from 1989 to 1993 and again from 1995 to 1998.
His most important works deal with the biographies of Leonhard Euler, Bartel Leendert van der Waerden, David Hilbert, Felix Klein.
Wu Wenjun (Chinese: 吴文俊; 12 May 1919 – 7 May 2017), also commonly known as Wu Wen-tsün, was a Chinese mathematician, historian, and writer.
See also History of Hindu Mathematics: A Source Book, Datta's magnum opus on Hindu (Indic) mathematics External links Biography == References ==
Biography At the age of seventeen, Miller began school-teaching to raise funds for higher education.
Books Croarken is the author of the book Early Scientific Computing in Britain (Clarendon Press, 1990).
Camille Jordan had given a list for degree 9 in 1872, re-examined by Cole, and brought up to 258 groups by Miller.
He also catalogued all the mathematical and astronomical manuscripts and produced a catalogue of about 2000 entries.
As well as quaternion algebras, Eichler orders, quadratic forms, and Shimura curves (the subject of the book), other topics in her research include automorphic forms, diophantine equations, elliptic curves, modular curves, and zeta functions.
From 1970 to 2012, David Zitarelli was a faculty member in the mathematics department of Temple University.
In 2014 at the ICM in Seoul, he was an invited speaker with talk One hundred years after the Great War (1914–2014): A century of breakdowns, resumptions and fundamental changes in international mathematical communication.
He joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1951 before teaching at Brandeis University, Case Western Reserve University and Columbia University.
James, British Society for the History of Science, 1997) Piero Della Francesca: A Mathematician's Art (Yale University Press, 2005) Byzantine and Arabic Mathematical Gearing (with D.
Speiser's book Theorie der Gruppen endlicher Ordnung is a classic, richly illustrated work on group theory.
Terquem rejected the Talmud, proposed to codify intermarriage between Jews and non-Jews, pushed to move the sabbath to Sunday, advocated using other languages than Hebrew for prayers, and fought against circumcision, regressive attitudes towards women, and the Jewish calendar.
His field of activity He chose fields far removed from that of theology proper, e.g., mathematics, philology, natural history, and medicine, to display the part which the Jews had taken in the general history of civilization (Kulturgeschichte).
References Attribution: This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lee, Sidney, ed.
Starting from 1879 he studied under Karl Weierstrass, Alexander von Brill, and Hermann Amandus Schwarz at the University of Munich, at the Technische Hochschule in Munich (now Technical University of Munich), at the University of Berlin and at the University of Göttingen.
She was co-editor (with Pierre Costabel) of the correspondence of Johann Bernoulli (Birkhäuser 1988, 1992) and published a French translation of the geometry of Albrecht Dürer.
There remains the class of elliptic surfaces, which are fiber bundles over a curve with elliptic curves as fiber, having a finite number of modifications (so there is a bundle that is locally trivial actually over a curve less some points).
Li discovered independently an equivalent version of what is known today as Descartes' rule of signs.
Upon retiring from Hunter College, Simons founded a $1000 scholarship for the university named after the mathematics honour society, Pi Mu Epsilon.
Fujiwara was an important contributor to the development of the Mathematical Institute of the University of Tokyo.
(See Henri Poincaré.) Die Theorie der komplexen Funktionen 1780–1900, in: Hans Niels Jahnke (ed.): Geschichte der Analysis, Spektrum Verlag, 1999, pp.
Education and career Imhausen studied mathematics, chemistry, and Egyptology at Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, passing the Staatsexamen in 1996.
Other research work and publications Aside from his academic work, Flood is active in communicating mathematics and its history to non-specialist audiences.
He did research on number theory, probability theory, relativity theory, astronomy, and actuarial science.
Gustaf Hjalmar Eneström (5 September 1852 – 10 June 1923) was a Swedish mathematician, statistician and historian of mathematics known for introducing the Eneström index, which is used to identify Euler's writings.
Markushevich was elected in 1945 a corresponding member and in 1950 a full member of Академии педагогических наук РСФСР (Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic).
The journal is named after the New Zealand physicist Ernest Rutherford (1871–1937), who studied at the Canterbury College (Christchurch).
She taught mathematics at Avery Hill College beginning in 1968, retiring in 1981 but continuing on a part-time basis for another 20 years, through the college's 1985 incorporation into the University of Greenwich.
degree from University of Singapore in 1966, and becoming a lecturer at the University of Singapore.
His work was criticized both by neo-Kantians and by more mainstream, rationalist logicians, to whom Becker feistily replied.
She was born and lived in Göttingen in Germany (where her parents worked at the university) until 1908.
Book Kent is the coauthor of Game Theory: A Playful Introduction (with Matt DeVos, Student Mathematical Library 80, American Mathematical Society, 2016).
Recognition In 1997 Stevens received the Deborah and Franklin Haimo Award for Distinguished College or University Teaching of Mathematics.
in History and the Philosophy of Science; from 1993 to 1995 studied classics at Christ College, Cambridge University, where he obtained his doctorate in 1995.
She studied mathematics and mathematics education at Trinity College Dublin, and met her husband there.
Yabuuchi's best known work on the history of Chinese mathematics, 支那数学史 (History of Chinese mathematics, published in 1944), was translated into French with the title Une histoire des mathématiques chinoises (2000, Editions Belin) by Kaoru Baba and Catherine Jami.
Engel translated the works of Nikolai Lobachevski from Russian into German, thus making these works more accessible.
Whilst suffering from cancer, Stedall joined the Painswick Friends' meeting house, which "helped her find peace with her illness".
He then traveled to Europe where he attended the Humboldt University of Berlin during 1898 and received a Ph.D.
Taniyama–Weil conjecture) based on a roughly formulated question of Taniyama at the 1955 Nikkō conference.
As regards his History of Arithmetics (Άριθμητικὴ ἱστορία) we only have the tiniest bit of information: there is only one testimonium, saying that Eudemus mentions the discovery by the Pythagoreans that it is possible to connect musical intervals with integer numbers.
She is a co-editor of The History of Mathematical Tables: from Sumer to Spreadsheets (Oxford University Press, 2003) and of Mathematics at the Meridian: The History of Mathematics at Greenwich (Chapman & Hall / CRC, 2020) == References ==
Plato's Trilogy: Theaetetus, the Sophist, and the Statesman (University of Chicago Press, 1977) Jacob Klein: Lectures and Essays ed.
He has published on Rudolf Clausius, ancient Greek writings about Archimedes, applied mathematicians' use of measuring instruments, and philosophical influences on mathematicians.
Corinna Rossi (born 1968) is an Italian Egyptologist known for her works on Ancient Egyptian mathematics and Ancient Egyptian architecture, on the archaeology of the Kharga Oasis, and on related topics in the history of Egypt and the Levant.
Early life and education Stubhaug was born in Naustdal Municipality on 25 May 1948, a son educator Lidvald Stubhaug and nurse Borghild Daltveit.
in the history of mathematics in 1974 at the University of Basel, also with studies at Stony Brook University.
Purkert completed (during 2013–2018) the biography of Hausdorff (Volume IB of the edition) begun by Egbert Brieskorn (1936–2013) and also edited Hausdorff's correspondence (Volume IX of the edition).
She is known for incorporating her interest in handbell ringing and her collection of clothing from her foreign travels into her mathematics classes.
Since 1985, Robin Wilson has edited the mathematics on stamps "Stamp Corner" column for the Mathematical Intelligencer.
Grabiner joined the mathematics department at Pitzer College in 1985, and has been the Flora Sanborn Pitzer Professor of Mathematics since 1994.
He examined Arabic trigonometric works in collaboration with Rasmus Olsen Besthorn and Hebrew texts with David Simonsen and published his studies on Menelaus of Alexandria's spherics in 1902 and received a doctorate.
Thibaut who took part in Franco-German War of 1870 as a noncommissioned officer joined the Muir Central College, Allahabad some 22 years ago as Professor of Philosophy.
Yvonne Dold-Samplonius : Calculating Surface Areas and Volumes in Islamic Architecture, The Enterprise of Science in Islam, New Perspectives, Eds.
of Minnesota Press, 1957) Theory of Graphs (1962) Graphs and Their Uses (1963) The Four-Color Problem (1967) Invitation to Number Theory (1969) Articles by Ore "On the foundation of abstract algebra (1)".
With Norbert Schappacher and Joachim Schwermer, she is editor of the book The shaping of arithmetic after C.
Contributions to mathematics Shtokalo published several works on the history of mathematics, specifically on advancements made by Ukrainian mathematicians.
In 1939, after the Zentralblatt was taken over by the Nazis, he moved to the United States, joined the mathematics department at Brown University, and founded Mathematical Reviews.
In 1966 he published a facsimile reprint of Ulrich Wagner's 1483 Bamberger Rechenbuch (Bamberg arithmetic book), of which he had access to a copy in the Zentralbibliothek Zürich.
doi:10.1093/bjps/41.3.351 Colin McLarty, 'Emmy Noether’s ‘Set Theoretic’ Topology: From Dedekind to the rise of functors' in The Architecture of Modern Mathematics: Essays in history and philosophy (edited by Jeremy Gray and José Ferreirós), Oxford University Press (2006) p.
After passing his Abitur in 1880 he studied mathematics and physics at the University of Berlin, but also listened to lectures on philosophy, psychology, education, and history.
Leslie Leland Locke (1875–1943) was an American mathematician, historian, and educator, best known for his work towards deciphering ancient Andean knot records called quipus.
Academic career From 1988 to 1996 she was Professor at the Department of Mathematics, National University of Singapore (NUS).
He worked on (nonlinear) ordinary differential equations and the topological methods used there (fixed-point theorems, Leray-Schauder theory) and methods of nonlinear functional analysis.
Research Curtis introduced Curtis duality, a duality operation on the characters of a reductive group over a finite field.
Jacob Klein (March 3, 1899 – July 16, 1978) was a Russian-American philosopher and interpreter of Plato, who worked extensively on the nature and historical origin of modern symbolic mathematics.
In 1971 he created the Séminaire de mathématiques at the Centre universitaire de Luxembourg (now the University of Luxembourg).
His last book, Unendliche Sphäre und Allmittelpunkt, Beiträge zur Genealogie der mathematischen Mystik was a study of the use of mathematical symbolism, especially the notion of "infinite spheres", in religious mysticism.
Life and work Nielsen was the son of humble peasants and grew up in the western part of the island of Funen.
Projects and scientific activity She was a member of the British Mission to Tell al-Amarna from 2000 to 2003.
Furthermore, he contributed an article on the work of Paramesvara: "Paramesvara's rule for the circumradius of a cyclic quadrilateral".
Braunmühl was born in Tiflis but came from a Bavarian family and his father had gone as an architect to build a palace.
Ivor Grattan-Guinness described the Histoire as a milestone: His first volume covered Greek, Roman, and Eastern traditions, while the second covered geometry, mechanics and optics up to the seventeenth century.
While a professor, he did research in industrial quality control and other areas, and also authored textbooks.
Locke later expanded his initial 1912 article into a full-length book, publishing The Ancient Quipu or Peruvian Knot Record through the American Museum of Natural History in 1923.
Kenneth Ownsworth May (July8, 1915 – December 1, 1977) was an American mathematician and historian of mathematics, who developed May's theorem.
Itō taught at the University of Tokyo, as Professor, from 1978 to 1989, and in International Research Center for Japanese Studies from 1989 to 1995, and in Reitaku University from 1995.
Re-published in the Obras sobre Matemática, volumes IV, V et VII, 1908–1915; Chelsea Publishing Co, New York, 1971; Éditions Jacques Gabay, Paris, 1995.
During the war, the staff of the college was reduced, but Taylor continued teaching assisted by Christie Willatts, Alfred Moodie and Eila Campbell, then a Masters student who would go on to become Professor of Geography in Birkbeck in 1970.
Footnotes External links William Dunham at the Mathematics Genealogy Project William Dunham at Muhlenberg College A Tribute to Euler, William Dunham, YouTube Your humble Servant, Is.
They joined the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1952, but by the early 1960s had been expelled from the party for their anti-revisionism (sympathy for Maoism and opposition to the Khrushchev Thaw).
Hot lead typesetting for the work had already started when the Siege of Leningrad prohibited further development and the print matrices were relocated.
Zappa, Guido (1984), "La scuola matematica di Francesco Severi intorno al 1940" [The mathematical school of Francesco Severi around about 1940] (PDF), Rivista di Matematica della Università di Parma, (4) (in Italian), 10*: 11–14, MR 0777309, Zbl 0562.01015.
in the history of mathematics there in 2005; at Brown, her faculty mentors included David Pingree, Alice Slotsky, and Kim Plofker.
About George Johnston Allman O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "George Johnston Allman", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews
Cantor's inaugural dissertation, "Über ein weniger gebräuchliches Coordinaten-System" (1851), gave no indication that the history of exact sciences would soon be enriched by a master work by him.
After this, he became the head of the technology and science section of the Institute of History, also in the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences.
Master of pure and applied mathematics, Springer Verlag 1990 Heaviside's operational calculus and the attempts to rigorise it, Archive for History of Exact Sciences, Volume 21, 1979, pp.
2012: Huygens, Christiaan (Also Huyghens, Christian), Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography, Encyclopedia.com References External links University of Aarhus Staff 155 Notes on Contributors Henk J.
Eneström received a Bachelor of Science (filosofie kandidat) degree from Uppsala university in 1871, received a position at Uppsala University Library in 1875, and at the National Library of Sweden in 1879.
This would lead to his comprehensive survey of the history of trigonometry in two volumes, published in 1900/1903.
Selected publications The development of Newtonian calculus in Britain, 1700-1800, Cambridge University Press, 1989 (paperback 2003).
Li Rui (Chinese: 李锐; pinyin: Lǐ Ruì; 8 December 1768 in Suzhou – 30 June 1817 in Suzhou) was a Chinese mathematician.
After leaving academia to raise a family in Norwich, she became a health research manager in the National Health Service, while continuing to work in the history of science as an independent scholar.
She became a regular-rank faculty member at Hunter College in 1932 and retired from there as an associate professor in 1972.
He ended his teaching career at Northwestern State University, which houses his collection of Gauss-related material, believed to be the largest collection of its kind in the world.
Louis-Gustave du Pasquier (18 August 1876, Auvernier – 31 January 1957, Cornaux) was a Swiss mathematician and historian of mathematics and mathematical sciences.
Education Dunham received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pittsburgh in 1969, his master's degree from Ohio State University in 1970, and his PhD from the same institution in 1974.
She earned a master's degree in mathematics, but was unable to obtain a teaching position with it because the schools she applied to only hired men.
Rickey has broad interests in the history of mathematics with a particular interest in the historical development of calculus and the use of this history to motivate and inspire students.
For two years, he taught undergraduate mathematics at Lehigh University, where he was unappreciated, overworked, and poorly paid, although he did not have to worry about being drafted, unlike his American students.
Smith Award for Distinguished College or University Teaching of the Mathematical Association of America.
"Felix Kleins Beziehungen zu den Vereinigten Staaten, die Anfänge deutscher auswärtiger Wissenschaftspolitik und die Reform um 1900 (Felix Klein's relations with the United States, the beginnings of German foreign science policy and the reform at the end of the 19th century)".
He studied mathematics and the history of science at the University of Oklahoma, and took a second doctorate in history at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
During the 1920s and 1930s he created a reputation as an authority on the history of Indian mathematics.
She earned her PhD in 1982 in history from the University of Chicago under the direction of the historian Allen G.
With Soichi Kakeya, he is known for the Eneström-Kakeya theorem which determines an annulus containing the roots of a real polynomial.
See also Algebraic geometry Group theory Italian school of algebraic geometry Francesco Severi Zappa-Szép product Notes References External links Guido Zappa at the Mathematics Genealogy Project Guido Zappa academic member page at the Accademia delle Scienze di Torino.
He addressed Nanson's method where n candidates are ordered by voters into a sequence of preferences.
In 1980 he was a visiting scholar at Yale University (studying under Asger Aaboe) and became a temporary lecturer (a temporary assistant professor position) at Odense University and from 1985 a lecturer at the University of Copenhagen.
Du Pasquier then taught at La Chaux-de-Fonds, Kusnacht, Frauenfeld, Winterthur, and Zurich, before he became a professor at the University of Neuchâtel in 1911.
But Dickson also noted that Wedderburn constructed his second and third proofs only after having seen Dickson's proof.
Michela Malpangotto is an Italian historian of science, specializing in the history of astronomy leading up to the Copernican Revolution, and its associated mathematics (especially spherical geometry and trigonometry).
Boncompagni edited Bullettino di bibliografia e di storia delle scienze matematiche e fisiche ("The bulletin of bibliography and history of mathematical and physical sciences") (1868–1887), the first Italian periodical entirely dedicated to the history of mathematics.
In the 1960s, he took part in the creation of new school textbooks on mathematics, developed the pedagogical theory of school textbooks, and worked on improving the training of school mathematics teachers.
In 1982 he was awarded a full professorship at BIT, where he continued teaching until mandatory retirement in 1995.
A special journal issue on the history of modern computing (with Jack Copeland, Carl Posy, and Parker Bright, The Rutherford Journal), 2010.
He was a visiting professor at the University of Notre Dame (1971–1972), Indiana University at South Bend (1977–1978), the University of Vermont (1984–1985), and the United States Military Academy (1989–1990).
Aristotle, shortly before his death in 322 BC, designated Theophrastus to be his successor as head of the Peripatetic School.
Shagrir received a BSc degree in mathematics and computer science and then an MA degree in Philosophy of Science (supervised by Itamar Pitowsky) from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
He studied philosophy, philology, history, and mathematics at the University of Iași before immigrating to Israel in 1961.
In 1995, she received a Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degree from the University of Oxford for a thesis titled "Old Babylonian coefficient lists and the wider context of mathematics in ancient Mesopotamia 2100-1600 BC".
"From diversis artibus" n o 47, Turnhout, 2000, 544 p., ( ISBN 2-503-51007-8 ), (notice BnF n o FRBNF37734558t ) .
External links Heilbronner, Johann Christoph von Moritz Cantor in: Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie, herausgegeben von der Historischen Kommission bei der Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Band 11 (1880), S.
Book publishing activities He was head of the editorial office of mathematics of the Soviet Издательство технико-теоретической литературы (Publishing House of Technical and Theoretical Literature) from 1934 to 1937 and again from 1943 to 1947.
Reading the Principia: the debate on Newton's mathematical methods for natural philosophy from 1687 to 1736, Cambridge University Press, 1999 (paperback 2003).
After obtaining an honours degree in commerce from Sir George Williams College, he left for Baltimore to pursue a Master of Science degree in mathematics at Johns Hopkins University.
Du Pasquier was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1920 at Strasbourg, in 1924 at Toronto, in 1928 at Bologna, and in 1932 at Zurich.
Terquem also founded another journal in 1855, the Bulletin de Bibliographie, d'Histoire et de Biographie de Mathématiques, which was published as a supplement to the Nouvelles Annales, and he continued editing it until 1861.
His seminal work Geschichte der Elementarmathematik originally consisted of two volumes, when it was first published in 1902 and 1903.
Sofya Aleksandrovna Yanovskaya (also Janovskaja; Russian: Софи́я Алекса́ндровна Яно́вская; 31 January 1896 – 24 October 1966) was a Soviet mathematician, philosopher and historian, specializing in the history of mathematics, mathematical logic, and philosophy of mathematics.
He translated the two treatises, the Mitacshara of Vijnaneshwara and the Dayabhaga of Jimutavahana, under the title Law of Inheritance.
He published Prime ideals and integral dependence written jointly with Irvin Cohen, which greatly simplified the existing proofs of the going-up and going-down theorems of ideal theory.
She has also studied the history of algebraic curves, and translated the works of Fermat into Russian.
XVI (or Historia matheseos universae; ), 1742 These two books are the first books that named and used the phrase "mathematical history (German: Geschichte der Mathematik, Latin: Historia matheseos)".
Eudemus then returned to Rhodes, where he founded his own philosophical school, continued his own philosophical research, and went on editing Aristotle's work.
Lützen's research deals with the prehistory of distributions (before their precisely defined introduction by Sergei Sobolev around 1936 and Laurent Schwartz around 1950), as well as Joseph Liouville (whose biography he wrote) and Heinrich Hertz and Hertz's mechanics.
Book Schulte's doctoral dissertation, Additions in Arithmetic, 1483-1700, to the Sources of Cajori's 'History of Mathematical Notations' and Tropfke's 'Geschichte Der Elementar-Mathematik', concerned the history of mathematical notation.
Singh received a master's degree from Banaras Hindu University in his hometown (Varanasi was then called Banaras or Benares) in 1924, where he was a student of Ganesh Prasad.
Education and career Du Pasquier studied at l'École Polytechnique, the University of Zurich, La Sorbonne, the Collège de France, and the Collège Libre des Sciences Sociales.
(translated by Abe Shenitzer with the editorial assistance of Hardy Grant, Sarah Shenitzer, and the author Detlev Laugwitz) == References ==
He is perhaps best known for his work with Kolmogorov, and his contributions to the study of probability theory, particularly extreme value theory, with such results as the Fisher–Tippett–Gnedenko theorem.
From 1926 to 1931 he studied physics and mathematics at the universities of Greifswald, Marburg and Göttingen.
Prince Baldassarre Boncompagni-Ludovisi (10 May 1821 – 13 April 1894), was an Italian historian of mathematics and aristocrat.
Life Tropfke was born in Berlin at Marienstraße 14 as the older of two sons of the cabinet maker Franz Tropfke.
After 1936, most of her research was in the history of mathematics, and she had a particular interest in Thomas Harriot, an Elizabethan mathematician.
Just as Ramsey theory elucidates the impossibility of total disorder, discrepancy theory studies the deviations from total uniformity.
If there is a counterexample to the conjecture, then there is also a counterexample consisting only of finite sets.
This strengthened the analogy with the Selberg trace formula to the point where it gives precise statements.
A Cauchy problem in mathematics asks for the solution of a partial differential equation that satisfies certain conditions that are given on a hypersurface in the domain.
Definitions A topological space is homogeneous if, for any two points m 1 , m 2 ∈ M {\displaystyle m_{1},m_{2}\in M} , there is a homeomorphism of M {\displaystyle M} which takes m 1 {\displaystyle m_{1}} to m 2 {\displaystyle m_{2}} .
This bound is tight when m {\displaystyle m} is much larger than n {\displaystyle n} , but not when m {\displaystyle m} and n {\displaystyle n} are nearly equal, in which case the Szemerédi–Trotter theorem provides a tighter O ( n 2 / 3 m 2 / 3 + n + m ) {\displaystyle O(n^{2/3}m^{2/3}+n+m)} bound.
In the minimal-time solutions, the general sends to the right signals S1, S2, S3, ..., Si at speeds 1, 1/3, 1/7, ..., 1/(2 i−1 − 1).
The continued fractions version of Vincent's theorem can be used to isolate the positive roots of a given polynomial p(x) of degree deg(p).
Countering disruption attacks Herbivore divides a large anonymity network into smaller DC-net groups, enabling participants to evade disruption attempts by leaving a disrupted group and joining another group, until the participant finds a group free of disruptors.
Their x-coordinate will vary by 2r since the distance between each center of the spheres are touching is 2r.
(2001), "The number of Reidemeister moves needed for unknotting", Journal of the American Mathematical Society, 14 (2): 399–428, arXiv:math/9807012, doi:10.1090/S0894-0347-01-00358-7, MR 1815217, S2CID 15654705.
For an arbitrary number of n points, ⁠ t 3 orchard ( n ) {\displaystyle t_{3}^{\text{orchard}}(n)} ⁠ was shown to be 1 6 n 2 − O ( n ) {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{6}}n^{2}-O(n)} in 1974.
The difference between the actual layout and the graph schematic is a good example of the idea that topology is not concerned with the rigid shape of objects.
Suppose the number of points in X {\displaystyle X} with period n {\displaystyle n} is finite for every n ≥ 1 {\displaystyle n\geq 1} .
(1992), "Balance theorems for height-2 posets", Order, 9 (1): 43–53, doi:10.1007/BF00419038, S2CID 16157076.
Theorem For every relational vocabulary τ with at least one binary relation symbol, it is undecidable whether a sentence φ of vocabulary τ is finitely satisfiable.
{\displaystyle x+y=const.} on these diagonal lines) spaced 4 liters apart, both horizontally and vertically.
Since the difference in area is always 1 area unit the optical illusion can be improved using larger Fibonacci numbers allowing gap's percentage of the rectangle area to become arbitrarily small and hence for practical purposes invisible.
The limit of a sequence of amenable groups (that is, an initially subamenable group) is necessarily sofic, but there exist sofic groups that are not initially subamenable groups.
In 1965, Jean-Pierre Sydler showed that two polyhedra are scissors-congruent if and only if they have the same volume and the same Dehn invariant.
But they are also of interest in other biological areas, including bacteria, viruses, microtubules, and the notochord of the zebra fish.
In it you have the same figure of four pieces assembled into a rectangle, however the dissected shape from which the four pieces originate is not a square yet nor are the involved line segments based on Fibonacci numbers.
The affirmative answer to this general question was given in 1957 by Vladimir Arnold, then only nineteen years old and a student of Andrey Kolmogorov.
In 1912 he gave an algorithm that solves both the word and conjugacy problem for the fundamental groups of closed orientable two-dimensional manifolds of genus greater than or equal to 2.
(In some regions points are mapped to themselves, in others they are mapped using the mapping described in the previous paragraph.) Likewise we can make a mapping from the big figure to all the B points in it.
Weiss, Benjamin (2000), "Sofic groups and dynamical systems" (PDF), Sankhyā, Series A, 62 (3): 350–359, MR 1803462, Zbl 1148.37302.
In mathematics, a toy theorem is a simplified instance (special case) of a more general theorem, which can be useful in providing a handy representation of the general theorem, or a framework for proving the general theorem.
In game theory, the Waldegrave problem is a problem first described in the second edition of Pierre Raymond de Montmort`s Essay d'analyse sur les jeux de hazard, which is the first discussion of a mixed strategy to derive a solution in game theory.
Moreover, if there is a morphism f : A → B {\displaystyle f:A\rightarrow B} in E {\displaystyle \mathbf {E} } then there is a functor f ∗ : E / B → E / A {\displaystyle f^{*}:\mathbf {E} /B\rightarrow \mathbf {E} /A} which preserves exponentials and the subobject classifier.
Hooper published the paradox now named after him under the name The geometric money in his book Rational Recreations.
Painter's paradox Since the horn has finite volume but infinite surface area, there is an apparent paradox that the horn could be filled with a finite quantity of paint and yet that paint would not be sufficient to coat its surface.
Since finite matter could not comprehend the infinite, Pardies argued, the fact that humans could comprehend this proof showed that humans must be more than matter, and have immaterial souls.
Examples of this type include the Erdős–Heilbronn Conjecture (for a restricted sumset) and the Cauchy–Davenport Theorem.
Restricted variants and related problems Planar circuit SAT Assume that we are given a planar Boolean circuit (i.e.
In mathematics, the Bing–Borsuk conjecture states that every n {\displaystyle n} -dimensional homogeneous absolute neighborhood retract space is a topological manifold.
If this is not possible, it places i {\displaystyle i} on top of an already placed item and does not split the sub-strip.
It states that if a group G has cohomological dimension 2, then it has a 2-dimensional Eilenberg–MacLane space K ( G , 1 ) {\displaystyle K(G,1)} .
Heine's theorem, named after the German mathematician Eduard Heine, establishes a link in mathematical analysis between limits of functions and limits of sequences.
This result was conjectured in 1950 by Paul Erdős and proved soon thereafter by Leon Mirsky and Donald J.
In model theory, Tarski's exponential function problem asks whether the theory of the real numbers together with the exponential function is decidable.
{\displaystyle {\frac {\overline {AB}}{\overline {P_{2}B}}}={\frac {\sin \alpha _{2}}{\sin \phi }},\qquad {\frac {\overline {P_{2}B}}{\overline {P_{1}P_{2}}}}={\frac {\sin \beta _{1}}{\sin \delta }}.} Combining these, we get A B ¯ P 1 P 2 ¯ = sin ⁡ α 2 sin ⁡ β 1 sin ⁡ ϕ sin ⁡ δ .
All positions on the eye-level line except the point of tangency are outside of the circle, and therefore the angle subtended by the painting from those points is smaller.
In 1997, Mladen Bestvina and Noel Brady constructed a group G so that either G is a counterexample to the Eilenberg–Ganea conjecture, or there must be a counterexample to the Whitehead conjecture; in other words, it is not possible for both conjectures to be true.
P means that there are several identical machines running in parallel; sizej means that each job has a size parameter; Cmax means that the goal is to minimize the maximum completion time.
Subsequent work has strongly borne out the connection between the distribution of the zeros of the Riemann zeta function and the eigenvalues of a random Hermitian matrix drawn from the Gaussian unitary ensemble, and both are now believed to obey the same statistics.
The authors used an aperiodic tiling of quantum Turing machines and showed that this hypothetical material becomes gapped if and only if the machine halts.
Any solution to Znám's problem is also a solution to the improper Znám problem, but not necessarily vice versa.
The Banach–Tarski Paradox is a book in mathematics on the Banach–Tarski paradox, the fact that a unit ball can be partitioned into a finite number of subsets and reassembled to form two unit balls.
In geometry, sphere packing in a cube is a three-dimensional sphere packing problem with the objective of packing spheres inside a cube.
Partial solutions to the Skolem problem are known, covering the special case of the problem for recurrences of degree at most four.
This paradox shows that there is no finitely additive measure on a sphere defined on all subsets which is equal on congruent pieces.
Method 2 is the only one that is both scale invariant and translation invariant; method 3 is just scale invariant, method 1 is neither.
Rectilinear crossing numbers If edges are required to be drawn as straight line segments, rather than arbitrary curves, then some graphs need more crossings than they would when drawn with curved edges.
The Hamiltonian is H ( N , Z ) := ∑ i = 1 N ( − Δ i − Z | x i | ) + ∑ i < j 1 | x i − x j | {\displaystyle H(N,Z):=\sum _{i=1}^{N}(-\Delta _{i}-{\frac {Z}{|x_{i}|}})+\sum _{i<j}{\frac {1}{|x_{i}-x_{j}|}}} .
The order ⪯ B {\displaystyle \preceq _{B}} is not a complete one, and most experiments cannot be ranked by it.
No permutation will convert the two solutions into each other, because suits and face values are different.
Kadison, Singer, and most later authors believed the statement to be false, but, in 2013, it was proven true by Adam Marcus, Daniel Spielman and Nikhil Srivastava, who received the 2014 Pólya Prize for the achievement.
Finally, let D : Θ ⇉ X {\displaystyle D:\Theta \rightrightarrows X} be defined by D ( θ ) = { x ∈ X : f ( x , θ ) = f ∗ ( θ ) } {\textstyle D(\theta )=\{x\in X:f(x,\theta )=f^{*}(\theta )\}} .
Therefore, vertex enumeration methods can be used to list all of the extreme rays and test whether any of them corresponds to a bounding disk of the knot.
All teams start and end at their own home city, and the goal is to minimize the total travel distance for every team over the course of the whole season.
It is known that 11 unit squares cannot be packed in a square of side length less than 2 + 4 5 ≈ 3.789 {\displaystyle \textstyle 2+{\frac {4}{\sqrt {5}}}\approx 3.789} .
Square packing is a packing problem where the objective is to determine how many congruent squares can be packed into some larger shape, often a square or circle.
Several problems of tiling and packing tripods and related shapes were formulated in 1967 by Sherman K.
Goldberg also conjectured that for numbers of spheres of the form k = ⌈ p 3 / 2 ⌉ {\displaystyle k=\lceil p^{3}/2\rceil } , the optimal packing of spheres in a cube is a form of cubic close-packing.
Has proofs of Lagrange's theorem, the polygonal number theorem, Hilbert's proof of Waring's conjecture and the Hardy–Littlewood proof of the asymptotic formula for the number of ways to represent N as the sum of s kth powers.
Cutting a polyhedron typically also introduces new edges and angles; their contributions must cancel out.
Upper bounds The Kővári–Sós–Turán theorem provides an upper bound on the solution to the Zarankiewicz problem.
The isomorphism problem was formulated by Max Dehn, and together with the word problem and conjugacy problem, is one of three fundamental decision problems in group theory he identified in 1911.
The coordination number of HCP and FCC is 12 and their atomic packing factors (APFs) are equal to the number mentioned above, 0.74.
{\displaystyle V_{k}(\pi _{k}(K))\leq V_{k}(\pi _{k}(L)){\mbox{ for all }}1\leq k<n\implies V_{n}(K)\leq V_{n}(L).} Vk(πk(K)) is sometimes known as the brightness of K and the function Vk o πk as a (k-dimensional) brightness function.
Is OCA (the open coloring axiom) consistent with 2 ℵ 0 > ℵ 2 {\displaystyle 2^{\aleph _{0}}>\aleph _{2}} ?
Let p be the nth decimal of the nth real number defined by the set E; we form a number N having zero for the integral part and p + 1 for the nth decimal if p is not equal either to 8 or 9, and unity if p is equal to 8 or 9.
If a counterexample exists, that is, a graph Km,n requiring fewer crossings than the Zarankiewicz bound, then in the smallest counterexample both m and n must be odd.
This leads to the concept of polycycles—cyclically ordered sets of singular points connected by phase curve arcs—and their cyclicity, which measures the number of limit cycles born in bifurcations.
Similar puzzles The missing square puzzle is an optical illusion used in mathematics classes to help students reason about geometrical figures; or rather to teach them not to reason using figures, but to use only textual descriptions and the axioms of geometry.
Origin The problem derives from "A Country House Visit", one of Jan Struther's newspaper articles appearing in the Times of London between 1937 and 1939 featuring her character Mrs.
The same result is true for recursively enumerable theories that can describe a strong enough fragment of arithmetic—including set theories such as Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (ZF).
Some long strings can be described exactly using fewer symbols than those required by their full representation, as is often achieved using data compression.
In Riemannian geometry, a branch of mathematics, the prescribed scalar curvature problem is as follows: given a closed, smooth manifold M and a smooth, real-valued function ƒ on M, construct a Riemannian metric on M whose scalar curvature equals ƒ.
In 1970, a geometric coloring problem equivalent to the Mirsky–Newman theorem was given in the Soviet mathematical olympiad: suppose that the vertices of a regular polygon are colored in such a way that every color class itself forms the vertices of a regular polygon.
If it is assumed that each of the matchboxes originally contained N {\displaystyle N} matches, what is the probability that there are exactly k {\displaystyle k} matches in the other box?
The name refers to the Christian idea that the archangel Gabriel will one day blow his horn to announce Judgment Day.
However, in Hilbert's Grand Hotel, the quantity of odd-numbered rooms is not smaller than the total "number" of rooms.
For every action she takes, her expected utility is ∑ ω ∈ Ω u ( a , ω ) p ( ω ) {\displaystyle \sum _{\omega \in \Omega }u(a,\omega )p(\omega )} Given such prior p {\displaystyle p} , she chooses an action a ∈ A {\displaystyle a\in A} to maximize her expected utility.
There exists a proof using tools from general topology such as the Arkhangel'skii–Frolík covering theorem and the Kuratowski and Ryll-Nardzewski measurable selection theorem.
In particular, if X {\displaystyle X} is a metric space, sequential continuity and continuity are equivalent.
Hilbert's distance (see fig.) is defined by d U ( p , q ) = 1 2 ln ⁡ ‖ q − q 1 ‖ E ‖ q − p 1 ‖ E × ‖ p − p 1 ‖ E ‖ p − q 1 ‖ E .
Known as word problems, they are used in mathematics education to teach students to connect real-world situations to the abstract language of mathematics.
This sort of tour of a chessboard also forms the basis of a type of puzzle called Numbrix, which asks for a tour in which the positions of certain squares match given clues.
In geometric probability, the problem of Buffon's noodle is a variation on the well-known problem of Buffon's needle, named after Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon who lived in the 18th century.
In Barrow's own words "the infinite diminution of one dimension compensates for the infinite increase of the other", in the case of the acute hyperbolic solid by the equation of the Apollonian hyperbola x y = 1 {\textstyle xy=1} .
The puzzle features a new character, Denise, whose birth date the three original characters aim to determine.
Relations to other classes ALL contains all of the complex classes of decision problems, including RE and co-RE, and uncountably many languages that are neither RE nor co-RE.
In mathematical logic, the Scott–Curry theorem is a result in lambda calculus stating that if two non-empty sets of lambda terms A and B are closed under beta-convertibility then they are recursively inseparable.
{\displaystyle \sum _{n=1}^{\infty }{\frac {1}{n^{2}}}={\frac {1}{1^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{2^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{3^{2}}}+\cdots .} The sum of the series is approximately equal to 1.644934.
For any ring R, the Jacobson radical of R[x] consists of the polynomials with coefficients from the upper nilradical of R.
Mourant, in 1965, proved that commuting functions on the unit interval have a common fixed point if one of the functions has no period 2 points (i.e., f ( f ( x ) ) = x {\displaystyle f(f(x))=x} implies f ( x ) = x {\displaystyle f(x)=x} ).
The blue path is one step shorter than the path for the two-jug puzzle with tap and drain, as we can accumulate 4 L in the 8 L jug, absent in the two-jug variant.
{\displaystyle \phi +\psi =\beta _{1}+\beta _{2}.} A second equation can be found more laboriously, as follows.
As a polynomial in X, φn has coefficients that are polynomials over Q {\displaystyle \mathbb {Q} } in j(τ).
Gleason, Montgomery and Zippin characterized Lie groups amongst locally compact groups, as those having no small subgroups.
Further, we should determine whether the occasional condensation of prime numbers which has been noticed in counting primes is really due to those terms of Riemann's formula which depend upon the first complex zeros of the function ζ ( s ) {\textstyle \zeta (s)} .
If true, it would have established the Yau's conjecture for the minimal hypersurface whose second fundamental form has constant length.
For example, if one jug that holds 8 liters is empty and the other jug that hold 12 liters has 9 liters of water in it to begin with, then with a source (tap) and a drain (sink), these two jugs can measure volumes of 9 liters, 5 liters, 1 liter, as well as 12 liters, 8 liters, 4 liters and 0 liters.
Standard example The standard puzzle of this kind works with three jugs of capacity 8, 5 and 3 liters.
A 2010 article by Valeriy Churkin gives a new proof of the continuous version of the Banach–Tarski paradox.
Solutions Since, given the diagonal lemma, every sufficiently strong theory will have to accept something like (H), absurdity can only be avoided either by rejecting the principle of naive reference (R) or by rejecting classical logic (which validates the reasoning from (R) and (H) to absurdity).
The Hartmanis–Stearns conjecture states that if x {\displaystyle x} is a real number whose expansion in some base b ≥ 2 {\displaystyle b\geq 2} (e.g., the decimal expansion for b = 10 {\displaystyle b=10} ) is real-time computable, then x {\displaystyle x} is rational or transcendental.
The sentence φM states that (i) <, min, Ti's and Hq's are interpreted as above and (ii) that the machine eventually halts.
However, the blue triangle has a ratio of 5:2 (=2.5), while the red triangle has the ratio 8:3 (≈2.667), so the apparent combined hypotenuse in each figure is actually bent.
The Köthe conjecture has been shown to be true for various classes of rings, such as polynomial identity rings and right Noetherian rings, but a general solution remains elusive.
In the same year, Crane showed that K < 4 − 2.263 d {\displaystyle K<4-{\frac {2.263}{\sqrt {d}}}} for d ≥ 8 {\displaystyle d\geq 8} .
The problem has, however, also been extended to even values of n {\displaystyle n} by asking, for those n {\displaystyle n} , whether all of the edges of the complete graph except for a perfect matching can be covered by copies of the given 2-regular graph.
The problem is historically related to Hilbert's sixteenth problem and was first formulated by Russian mathematicians Vladimir Arnold and Yulij Ilyashenko in the 1980s.
A sensible strategy would certainly be to swap when the first envelope contains 1, as the other must then contain 2.
(This Banach measure, however, is only finitely additive, so it is not a measure in the full sense, but it equals the Lebesgue measure on sets for which the latter exists.) This implies that if two open subsets of the plane (or the real line) are equi-decomposable then they have equal area.
Such a three dimensions polyhedron was found by Karl Reinhardt in his 1928 booklet titled Zur Zerlegung der euklidischen Räume in kongruente Polytope.
The Riemann hypothesis is that all nontrivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function have a real part of ⁠1/2⁠.
(Thus for example a corner cell of a 3×3 square has a distance of 2 , {\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}},} a non-corner edge cell has a distance of 1, and the center cell has a distance of 0.) Then all magic squares of a given order have the same moment of inertia as each other.
For example, there cannot be a general algorithm that decides whether a given statement about natural numbers is true or false.
Hence, the counterexample to CLP had been known for nearly ten years, it is just that nobody knew why it worked!
By exploiting the provided algebraic symmetries in ideal lattices, one can convert a short nonzero vector into n {\displaystyle n} linearly independent ones of (nearly) the same length.
History The questions appeared following Thurston's announcement of the geometrization conjecture, which proposed that all compact 3-manifolds could be decomposed into geometric pieces.
Let N {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} } be a set of natural numbers (positive integers) that is, the numbers 1 , 2 , 3 , … {\displaystyle 1,2,3,\dots } .
W2 (transformation law of the field) The fields are covariant under the action of Poincaré group, and they transform according to some representation S of the Lorentz group, or SL(2,C) if the spin is not integer: U ( a , L ) † A ( x ) U ( a , L ) = S ( L ) A ( L − 1 ( x − a ) ) .
Physical applications Physical soap films are more accurately modeled by the ( M , 0 , Δ ) {\displaystyle (M,0,\Delta )} -minimal sets of Frederick Almgren, but the lack of a compactness theorem makes it difficult to prove the existence of an area minimizer.
For example, the affirmative answer for spherical Bernstein problem when n = 3 is equivalent to the fact that the local topology at an isolated singular point of any minimal hypersurface in an arbitrary Riemannian 4-manifold must be different from that of a disc.
Let c R ( x ) = | { y ∣ R ( x , y ) } | {\textstyle c_{R}(x)=\vert \{y\mid R(x,y)\}\vert \,} be the counting function.
The unknotting problem has the same computational complexity as testing whether an embedding of an undirected graph in Euclidean space is linkless.
Essentially, this method begins with a model of ZF in which CH holds and constructs another model which contains more sets than the original in a way that CH does not hold in the new model.
In queueing theory, a discipline within the mathematical theory of probability, an M/G/k queue is a queue model where arrivals are Markovian (modulated by a Poisson process), service times have a general distribution and there are k servers.
However, it has been shown that in reality this is impossible and the number of blocks that we can move to the right, due to block stress, is not more than a specified number.
While we usually assume that in the starting configuration all but finitely many cells on the tape are blanks, in the mortality problem the tape can have arbitrary content, including infinitely many non-blank symbols written on it.
It would seem at first glance that the more they overlapped the better the relationship; but this is not so.
Historical context Girard's 1972 inconsistency result clarified that a sufficiently strong "type of all types" principle is incompatible with consistency.
Ball (1988) pointed out a particularly simple counterexample: all sections of the unit volume cube have measure at most √2, while in dimensions at least 10 all central sections of the unit volume ball have measure at least √2.
(1962), "On a quasi-ordering in the class of continuous mappings of a closed interval into itself", Colloquium Mathematicum, 9 (2): 233–240, doi:10.4064/cm-9-2-233-240, MR 0143181.
Some important corollaries of this are: Cantor's theorem Cantor's diagonal argument Diagonal lemma Russell's paradox Gödel's first incompleteness theorem Tarski's undefinability theorem Turing's proof Löb's paradox Roger's fixed-point theorem Rice's theorem == References ==
It entails proving whether a solution exists for all 7th-degree equations using algebraic (variant: continuous) functions of two arguments.
From a constructivist viewpoint, such approaches are not viable as it leads to mathematics losing its concrete applicability, while the opposing viewpoint is that abstract methods are far-reaching, in a way that numerical analysis cannot be.
A Hamiltonian with a spectral gap is called a gapped Hamiltonian, and those that do not are called gapless.
Solution The first major result was that of John von Neumann in 1933, giving an affirmative answer for compact groups.
This means that the 100 kg of potatoes contains 1 kg of dry mass, which does not change, as only the water evaporates.
Kurosh asked whether there can be a finitely-generated infinite-dimensional algebraic algebra (the problem being to show this cannot happen).
Post correspondence problem: Given a list of pairs of strings, determine if there is a selection from these pairs (allowing repeats) such that the concatenation of the first items (of the pairs) is equal to the concatenation of the second items.
Combining this with fact that number of zeros with such imaginary part is O ( T log ⁡ T ) {\displaystyle O(T\log T)} and taking T tending to infinity, it gives that almost all of zeros lie arbitary close to critical line.
Now, we assume that the values of x , θ {\displaystyle x,\theta } are randomly determined when they land, where 0 < x < D 2 {\displaystyle 0<x<{\frac {D}{2}}} , since 0 < ℓ < D {\displaystyle 0<\ell <D} , and 0 < θ < π 2 {\displaystyle 0<\theta <{\frac {\pi }{2}}} .
He shows that the problem is not just undecidable, but Π 2 0 {\displaystyle \Pi _{2}^{0}} -complete.
In computer science, the matrix mortality problem (or mortal matrix problem) is a decision problem that asks, given a set of size m of n×n matrices with integer coefficients, whether the zero matrix can be expressed as a finite product of matrices from this set.
Plünnecke–Ruzsa inequality A useful theorem in additive combinatorics is Plünnecke–Ruzsa inequality.
Here, "quickly" means an algorithm exists that solves the task and runs in polynomial time (as opposed to, say, exponential time), meaning the task completion time is bounded above by a polynomial function on the size of the input to the algorithm.
Since, in general, the number of machines appears only in logarithmic in the size of the instance, this algorithm is a pseudo-polynomial time approximation scheme as well.
See also Girard's paradox Pure type system Lambda cube Universe (type theory) Martin-Löf type theory Burali-Forti paradox References Further reading Barendregt, Henk (1992).
Due primarily to the work of Jerry Kazdan and Frank Wilson Warner in the 1970s, this problem is well understood.
Consequences for some formal logic In the 1930s, Curry's paradox and the related Kleene–Rosser paradox, from which Curry's paradox was developed, played a major role in showing that various formal logic systems allowing self-recursive expressions are inconsistent.
From this viewpoint, Richard's paradox results from treating a construction of the metatheory (the enumeration of all statements in the original system that define real numbers) as if that construction could be performed in the original system.
Further applications Matiyasevich's theorem has since been used to prove that many problems from calculus and differential equations are unsolvable.
Macintyre & Wilkie (1996) showed that Schanuel's conjecture implies such a procedure exists, and hence gave a conditional solution to Tarski's problem.
Tossing a needle 3,408 times, he obtained the well-known approximation ⁠355/113⁠ for π, accurate to six decimal places.
As each edge has a weight of one, the weight of the resulting cycle cover is equal to that of the original cycle cover.
These matters were brought up by Aleksandr Gennadievich Kurosh as analogues of the Burnside problem in group theory.
Even for three blocks, stacking two counterbalanced blocks on top of another block can give an overhang of 1, while the overhang in the simple ideal case is at most ⁠11/12⁠.
In contrast, the mortality problem for Turing machines asks whether all executions of the machine, starting from any configuration, halt.
The first such was given in 1959 using a factor to adjust the mean waiting time in an M/M/c queue This result is sometimes known as Kingman's law of congestion.
Since E(Xk) = P(Xk = 1) = 1/(n − k + 1), the sought expected value is 1/n + 1/(n − 1) + 1/(n − 2) + ...
In cryptography, the dining cryptographers problem studies how to perform a secure multi-party computation of the boolean-XOR function.
Mathematical formulation This presentation is from Hamilton's principle As in Lagrangian mechanics, we consider a system with n {\displaystyle n} degrees of freedom.
(1976), "Problem 15: rigorous foundation of Schubert's enumerative calculus", Mathematical developments arising from Hilbert problems (Proc.
The failure of the staircase curves to converge to the correct length can be explained by the fact that some of their vertices do not lie on the diagonal.
Their methods were quite different; Radó's work built on the previous work of René Garnier and held only for rectifiable simple closed curves, whereas Douglas used completely new ideas with his result holding for an arbitrary simple closed curve.
One card is red on both sides, one is white on both sides, and one is white on one side and red on the other.
In mathematics, engineering, computer science and economics, an optimization problem is the problem of finding the best solution from all feasible solutions.
Therefore, assuming (as most complexity theorists do) some NP problems don't have efficient algorithms, proofs of independence with those techniques are impossible.
{\displaystyle {\frac {\sin x}{x}}=1-{\frac {x^{2}}{3!}}+{\frac {x^{4}}{5!}}-{\frac {x^{6}}{7!}}+\cdots .} The Weierstrass factorization theorem shows that the right-hand side is the product of linear factors given by its roots, just as for finite polynomials.
It states: There is no set whose cardinality is strictly between that of the integers and the real numbers.
Place the residual items in I {\displaystyle {\mathcal {I}}} into the new target area using one of the procedures.
Huneke's solution is based on the mountain climbing problem, which states that two climbers, climbing separate mountains of equal height, will be able to climb in such a way that they will always be at the same elevation at each point in time.
The extra rule ( △ , ∗ ) {\displaystyle (\triangle ,\ast )} (present only in System U) additionally allows types (and hence terms) to depend on higher-level objects; System U− omits this particular form of dependency.
Smale composed this list in reply to a request from Vladimir Arnold, then vice-president of the International Mathematical Union, who asked several mathematicians to propose a list of problems for the 21st century.
More precisely, they showed that the existence of a counterexample generated by ℵ 1 {\displaystyle \aleph _{1}} elements is independent of the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory and the axiom of choice ( Z F C {\displaystyle {\mathsf {ZFC}}} ).
For example, the statement that the sine function is continuous everywhere, or any theorem written in big O notation, can be considered as theorems which are existential by nature—since the quantification can be found in the definitions of the concepts used.
The final resolution, at least in the interpretation of what Hilbert meant given above, came with the work of Andrew Gleason, Deane Montgomery and Leo Zippin in the 1950s.
The reverse assumption X ∉ C {\displaystyle X\notin C} gives X = G ( X ′ ) = a {\displaystyle X=G(X')=a} so X ∈ C {\displaystyle X\in C} .
Formulation of the problem A modern formulation of the problem (in its simplest interpretation) is as follows: An equivalent formulation of this problem closer to that of Hilbert, in terms of composition laws, goes as follows: In this form the problem was solved by Montgomery–Zippin and Gleason.
The study of the numeraire portfolio links SPT to the so-called Benchmark approach to Mathematical Finance, which takes such a numeraire portfolio as given and provides a way to price contingent claims, without any further assumptions.
In mathematics, especially in topology, a topological group G {\displaystyle G} is said to have no small subgroup if there exists a neighborhood U {\displaystyle U} of the identity that contains no nontrivial subgroup of G .
The pill jar puzzle is a probability puzzle, which asks the expected value of the number of half-pills remaining when the last whole pill is popped from a jar initially containing n whole pills and the way to proceed is by removing a pill from the bottle at random.
His argument does not eliminate the possibility of strictly finitistic proofs that cannot be represented within arithmetic.
The number of solutions for small values of k {\displaystyle k} , starting with k = 5 {\displaystyle k=5} , forms the sequence: 2, 5, 18, 96 (sequence A075441 in the OEIS).
This means that half of all positions are unsolvable, although it says nothing about the remaining half.
Computational complexity The computational complexity of the problem is a subject of research in computer science.
More generally, the numbers of foldings with this definition are 1, 1, 2, 5, 14, 38, 120, 353, 1148, 3527, 11622, 36627, 121622, 389560, 1301140, 4215748, ...
(Again, certain individual grammars have RE-complete membership problems.) The validity problem for first-order logic.
The algorithm then runs for n {\displaystyle n} rounds, and at each round i {\displaystyle i} receives an n {\displaystyle n} -dimensional Boolean vector v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} and must return the product M v i {\displaystyle Mv_{i}} (before continuing to round i + 1 {\displaystyle i+1} ).
Upper and lower bounds Since no two lines may share two distinct points, a trivial upper-bound for the number of 3-point lines determined by n points is ⌊ ( n 2 ) / ( 3 2 ) ⌋ = ⌊ n 2 − n 6 ⌋ .
For example, Tarski found an algorithm that can decide the truth of any statement in analytic geometry (more precisely, he proved that the theory of real closed fields is decidable).
Regarded as set-valued set functions, the 14 closure-complement operations comprise an operator monoid called the Kuratowski monoid where the monoid product is function composition.
As of 2014, it is open whether the recognition problem is decidable for the 4-dimensional sphere S 4 {\displaystyle S^{4}} .
In view of the fundamental importance of Poincaré's formulation of the question it seems to me that an elucidation and resolution of this difficulty is extremely desirable.
This allowed to obtain similar results for prime ideals in rings of integers as for usual primes with current knowledge about Riemann zeta function.
Incidents The water hog at the Taunton cricket ground failed, in May 2006, delaying the start of the Somerset v Hampshire C&G Trophy match, which was subsequently abandoned.
Many treadmill desks are programmed to pause the belt if the user steps off for more than 20 seconds during a workout.
Obstruction means a player touches the ball when it is above or traveling towards the playing surface, not having touched the player's court since last being struck by the player.
Other names The tracksuit is also known as a warm-up suit, or "warmups" for short, as they are intended for athletes to keep their bodies warm before or after competition, and during breaks (especially important in cold weather).
A shin guard or shin pad is a piece of equipment worn on the front of an athlete's shin to protect it from injury.
This makes ball lenses particularly suited for coupling light from a laser to a fiber-optic cable or a detector, or from one fiber-optic cable to another, or for micro-optical systems.
Billabong), it is widely accepted that the term billycan is derived from bouilli can, the name given to the empty canisters used for preserving soup and bouilli and other foods.
This decision was condemned on both sides of the political spectrum in New Zealand with the two major parties describing it as unfair.
The international law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher took on the cross-border dispute and filed a complaint in Federal court against Edenred.
Treston made a sliotar at a nearby saddler, which was used in the game, and went on to be a prototype for subsequent sliotars.
Some bolted crags use fixed permadraws, which are on-site wire or chain quickdraws that are permanently attached to the bolt hangers.
Other applications do exist though for protecting the lower leg in other physical activities such as hiking, mixed martial arts, and kickboxing, but all these activities can also be considered for sport instead of being necessary in battle.
The Darrell Survey reports on golf equipment used during PGA Tour events, as well as at tournaments on the Korn Ferry Tour, LPGA, and Champions Tours.
The intention of an anchor is case-specific but is usually for fall protection, primarily fall arrest and fall restraint.
The company is best known for developing the Happy Nappy system (in Britain, a nappy is a diaper), which comprises waterproof neoprene outer layers with leak-restricting grip and an inner absorbent layer.
The belief that sheet latex is superior to all molded latex is completely false; ultimately, a garment's success depends on its creator's abilities, as even poorly made sheet latex can easily fail.
He purchased the rights to the product and contracted a manufacturer in China to produce the equipment.
A versatile nut/cam hybrid, the Tricam was invented by Greg Lowe in 1973, and came to market in 1981.
WAG bags are one method of safely packing out human waste from remote areas and places without facilities.
Prior to 1920, men and women could both demonstrate their being at leisure simply by removing a jacket, either literally in the case of menswear, or metaphorically by a woman wearing a shirtwaist blouse that resembled a man's shirt worn without a jacket.
Students, enrolled in military boarding schools in India, are issued a 'hold-all' to carry their blankets, quilts and clothes.
It was founded in Beveren-Roeselare (Belgium) in 1928 by the brothers-in-law Valler Snauwaert and Eugeen Depla.
Large-sized commercial or military tents do often stand on flooring systems, which are large-sized tent platforms.
In the Spanish language, the word is possibly a diminutive form of the word macho, which was used to refer to sledgehammers.
Pro shops at golf facilities usually provide equipment such as golf balls, clubs, shoes, and tees, as well as golf-themed gift items, and sometimes snacks or refreshments.
twist lock A climbing move where the hips "twist" perpendicular to the wall, the inside arm is "locked" on an upper hold, the outside arm holds the body against the wall, and the feet press down to propel the body higher.
To fit non-parallel cracks, there are SLCDs with asymmetrical "offset" cams and devices that expand the lobes independently (Totem Cam).
Umbro also manufactured a popular style of shorts that reached its peak in the United States in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
History Persons with a sedentary lifestyle are at increased risk for heart disease, diabetes, and lower than average life expectancy.
His father, former track and field athlete and coach, after the collapse of the USSR, started selling sporting goods, which inspired Artur and his brother to start the brand.
It is the instantaneous force exerted that makes the difference, not the sum of all the forces over time.
By the mid-1980s, sportswear had become a key part of the international fashion scene, forming a large part of America's contribution to the twice-yearly fashion presentations alongside top-end collections from Paris, Milan and London.
Typically, it is a wooden deck near a hiking trail that provides the hikers a clean and even place to sleep.
The etymology of this word not only describes the use and purpose of shin guards, but also contributes to dating the technology.
Spherical balls include the baseball, basketball, Gaelic ball, cricket ball, golf ball, lacrosse ball, tennis ball, and the ball used in association football.
Terminology Dopp kit is a term that originated in the early 20th century, originally referring to toiletry kits for men and World War II soldiers before later becoming a common term for toiletry kits, particularly ones made with leather or other high-quality materials.
Another account suggests that the cyclical nature of blue jean sales has allowed athleisure apparel to supplant denim as casual wear.
Each of the simple machines (pulley, lever, wheel, incline) changes the mechanical advantage of the overall machine relative to the weight.
It was the first shoe to introduce the "P" logo which has since been used on all of the company's shoes.
Made of a nylon webbing structure consisting of one large loop sewn in multiple places to make a shorter length.
Regulations specify the size, colour and the placement of sponsor, national federation and manufacturer logos and other graphics.
In 2004, The Athlete's Foot filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and announced that they would close all of their 124 company-owned stores in the United States, leaving the brand with 593 independent franchise locations left.
CryoNick technology facilitates hot and cold exercise recovery, making it particularly suitable for rehabilitation and physical therapy.
Bedding options range from a pillow made from clothes to a sleep system consisting of a sleeping pad, sleeping bag, bivouac shelter, bag liner, and compression sack.
In 1916, the Cleveland Indians became the first team to add numbers on their uniforms, positioned on the left sleeve of the home uniforms only.
In late 2016, Giant announced the Road-E+ e-Bike, which features: HCT (Hybrid Cycling Technology) drive system 500 watt 80Nm Yamaha mid drive motor 400Wh or 500Wh EnergyPack integrated frame battery PedalPlus 4-sensor technology RideControl display & control pad with Bluetooth integration.
Rice's claim that "all players" in his era used Stickum was quickly denied by Hall of Fame contemporaries Cris Carter and Michael Irvin.
His course designing credits include the East course at North Berwick, Moffat, Rothesay, Craigielaw Links, the Merchants of Edinburgh, Adare Manor, West Monmouthshire, the Spey Bay Golf Club in Banffshire, and the Ballathie Hotel course in Perthshire.
A snow picket is usually made of lightweight aluminum in 18–36-inch-long (46–91 cm) long T-shaped design.
However, further studies must be conducted to show evidence of significant changes on cardiometabolic health.
As the wicket-keeper is positioned directly behind the batsman, and therefore has the ball bowled directly at them, they are the only fielder allowed to wear gloves and (external) leg guards.
Many advanced jugglers can juggle seven or more balls at once, but not seven or more rings or clubs.
Padiddling was popularized during freestyle disk (frisbee) competitions in the 1970s until it fell out of favor in the early 1980s.
Fashion history Sweatpants were first invented by French sportswear manufacturer Le Coq Sportif in 1920 to provide athletes with comfort and ease of mobility.
The proceeds from the auction were used to support emergency services responding to 2019–20 Australian bushfire season.
In 2000 Callahan reported to Sydney Morning Herald that his company was building 600 to 700 chairs a year at around AUD 2,000 per chair, and almost all of Australia's wheelchair basketball team was using his chairs.
Health reformer Mary Gove Nichols drafted a Declaration of Independence from the Despotism of Parisian Fashion and gathered signatures to it at lectures on woman's dress.
Some manufacturers have explored other shapes; for example, Yogamatters make an oval block, comfortable for sitting but less versatile as a support.
Involvement in football Carbrini was first introduced to JD Sports in 2006 with their funky clothing line of urban footwear.
This provided protection from testicle torsion, from squishing them between the thighs, and for modesty purposes.
The brand was associated with football and several pro teams that play in the English and Scottish football pyramids were supplied with Carbrini kits and training range.
Splash About International, usually referred to as Splash About, is a British company that best known as a designer, manufacturer and retailer of swimwear and swimming aids for children and babies.
Molten-iron shells were easier to handle and somewhat more effective than the red-hot shot they replaced.
This occurs when the rope is threaded in such a way that the rope forces the bars open, instead of holding them closed.
The main difference is that a splitboard will have an additional metal edge (down the center of the board) for extra grip in ski mode.
The Coolflo is a batting helmet designed by Rawlings and first put into regular use during the 2006 Major League Baseball season.
Ditty bag originated as a term around 1860, referring to a bag used by sailors to hold small articles.
The term "gymslip" primarily refers to the school uniform; otherwise the term pinafore dress (British English) or jumper dress (American English) is usually preferred.
improved upon the Springbar design over the years and, from it, created models of varying sizes and features — from a two-person tent to a large modular tent called the Leisure Port, which campers could add rooms onto.
In 2024, the Eredivisie banned artificial turfs, meaning hybrid grass and natural grass became mandatory, starting from the 2025–26 season.
These jerseys are usually made from lightweight synthetic microfiber materials that wick moisture from the skin to aid evaporation, keeping the rider cool and dry.
Uses A holdall is often used in place of a suitcase or for carrying sports equipment, and has the advantage over most suitcases of being compressible when empty.
Technology The InfraStar Bike uses zero-gravity vacuum technology to create negative resistance within its sealed capsule, targeting cellulite reduction in specific areas while improving blood flow and stimulating lymphatic circulation.
It was one of three cases mentioned in the television show Last Week Tonight with John Oliver's civil forfeiture episode, alongside United States v.
Computer-aided maps (digital cartography) Computer software is available to aid in the drawing of digital maps.
Carrot bolt is a metal hex-headed machine bolt used in Australia to function like a bolt but with no fixed bolt hanger attached; climbers attach to the carrot bolt by using a version of a rivet hanger or by attaching a removable bolt hanger plate.
Tanks for octopuses Artificial turf is commonly used for tanks containing octopuses, in particular the Giant Pacific octopus since it is a reliable way to prevent the octopuses from escaping their tank, as they prevent the suction cups on the tentacles from getting a tight seal.
A wetsuit with a very smooth and somewhat delicate outer surface known as smoothskin, which is the original outer surface of the foamed neoprene block from which the sheets are cut, is used for long-distance swimming, triathlon, competitive apnoea, and bluewater spearfishing.
Description Oftentimes bodystockings are made of sheer fabric and are worn with or without undergarments such as a bra.
Alpine snowboards tend to be longer and thinner with a much stiffer flex for greater edge hold and better carving performance.
RBs are used almost exclusively in bolting and cleaning new lines, often steep limestone, which is soft enough to be drilled with relative ease, and is particularly difficult to bolt without some load bearing anchor.
Sled pull The sled pull exercise involves attaching a harness or straps to the sled, or simply grabbing onto it.
big wall climbing A long sustained sheer exposed rock climb with at least 6–10 pitches (over 300–500 metres), that typically takes over a day (if not many days), and requires the hauling of food, water, sleeping bags, and the use of portaledges.
Softer balls that are struck hard (especially squash balls) increase in temperature due to inelastic collision.
Jerseys identify their wearers' names and/or numbers, generally showing the colors and logo of the team.
Xootr (pronounced "zoo-ter") is an American manufacturer of folding kick scooters and was formerly a seller of folding bicycles.
Pull-ups build up several muscles of the upper body, including the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and biceps brachii.
This differs from most spinning tricks due to the active circling motions needed to keep an object spinning.
Jögel is a Russian sportswear company based in Moscow, dedicated to the production of products for association football, basketball, volleyball, futsal and other sports.
bergschrund A crevasse that forms on the upper portion of a glacier where the moving section pulls away from the headwall.
In British English, a holdall (or occasionally hold-all) may be a similar bag but may often have wheels and possibly a telescopic handle.
The United States Navy also turned down Bradner's and Bascom's offer to supply its swimmers and frogmen with the new wetsuits due to concerns that the gas in the neoprene component of the suits might make it easier for naval divers to be detected by underwater sonar.
For example, if Team A scores 12 points in an inning and Team B scores 10 points, then Team A is awarded two points (12 minus 10); whereas if Team A and Team B both score 12 points, the difference is zero, and no one scores.
This left users with only an ankle strap to do up, with the aim being to make the crampon lighter and easier to put on the boot.
Liga de Primera (Official match balls) Primera División de El Salvador (Official match balls) Liga Guate (Official match balls) Basketball national teams Molten was the provider of uniforms to Malaysia's national basketball team at the 2021 FIBA Asia Cup qualification.
A heart rate monitor (HRM) is a personal monitoring device that allows one to measure/display heart rate in real time or record the heart rate for later study.
The Swedish-made Primus 71 and the similar Optimus 80 have a larger fuel tank and are slightly taller and heavier than the Svea.
History In Sweden in the early 1980s, inventor Jan Von Heland got the idea of creating something that skips on water after throwing a Frisbee upside down and noticing it skims the surface of water much like skipping a rock.
There are recorded instances of children fainting and crashing onto hard surfaces while inside the balls, and the U.S.
The MLUs were simple radio beacons, and thus required search and rescuers to use traditional radio direction finding (RDF or DF) equipment to obtain a bearing, but not a precise location, to the beacon.
Resistance bands are simple to use, and their light weight allows people to easily carry them if travelling and continue with routine sessions for strength training.
Some climbers use tape slings to "tie-off" long ice-screws that have not been fully screwed into the ice, to reduce the leverage of a fall, which might bend or break the screw.
For the purpose of these measurements, a "standard man" is assumed to be 25 years old, with a height of 1.73 m and a weight of 73 kg; a "standard woman" is assumed to be 25 years old, with a height of 1.60 m and a weight of 60 kg.
During the 2014 Commonwealth Games, the team of Daniel Lewis called for the decision to be reevaluated after he was ruled out after sustaining a cut during a match.
He made one prototype and tested the product in his clinical practice before being approached to market the product.
The more oxygen-rich air inside the tent is displaced and with it, the excess carbon dioxide exhaled by the occupant(s).
The Indian batter Nariman 'Nari' Contractor had to retire from the game after being hit on the head by a ball in the West Indies in 1962.
These range from simple spring-like devices to computerized electromechanical devices to recirculating-stream swimming pools.
In rehabilitation ankle braces are used to immobilize the ankle in a neutral position, which "theoretically minimizes stress at the repair site".
These pants are often made from a variety of materials, like velvet or satin, and in many color combinations or patterns.
Rowing machines Rowing machines, also named rowers, simulate the body movements of using a rowing boat.
Carlos Manuel de Céspedes, owner of the sugar refinery La Demajagua near Manzanillo, freed his slaves on 10 October 1868.
A survival suit for protecting survivors of a helicopter ditching incident is also known as a helicopter transportation suit (HTS).
The Prince patent was upheld elsewhere and the company became the only highly-successful seller of oversize racquets in their early history.
The project was then handled by a group in New Jersey that redesigned the product to be a single package incorporated into a stand-alone indoor exercise bike.
One boot designed to use the GSB system was the (now discontinued) Scarpa Mirage GTX, a Gore-Tex lined 3-4 season mountaineering boot.
They should not be confused with ringette rings, which are toruses, for use in the sport of ringette.
It is distinct from the inflated exercise ball, which is much lighter and larger which is up to 37 in (95 cm) in diameter.
Dwork also holds the world's only Bachelor of Arts degree for studies in Professional Flying Disc Entertainment and Education, awarded by Hampshire College in 1984.
Wearing As with the Japanese keikogi, the võ phục top should be worn with the left front panel tied over the right.
A Sierra cup, Sierra Club cup, or Appalachian Mountain cup, is a multipurpose utensil designed for camping, hiking, and backpacking.
The Two and a Half Men character Charlie Harper, portrayed by Charlie Sheen, often wears two-tone bowling shirts.
While metal Sierra cups may be used for cooking food or purifying water, they were not designed for this use and do it poorly, as the broad rim increases the time necessary to boil water.
Indoor rowing primarily works the cardiovascular systems with typical workouts consisting of steady pieces of 20–40 minutes.
Work with the ASA and BSI In 2014 Splash About announced that it was working alongside the Amateur Swimming Association and Water Babies to create a new British Standard for baby and Toddler Swimming.
A more expensive option gaining popularity amongst professional athletes is to convert their entire bedroom to altitude.
In October 2019, Kathmandu announced it would buy 100% of Australian surf brand Rip Curl for A$350m.
Toiletry bags vary widely in size, but most are designed to be stored within a primary bag such as a backpack or suitcase.
Balls used in various sports in other parts of the world prior to Columbus were made from other materials such as animal bladders or skins, stuffed with various materials.
Doppelt's company was purchased by Samsonite in the early 1970s, and later acquired by Buxton in 1979.
If used in combination with a drilling partner, the ball machine can be used to develop front-court tactics.
The calf muscles or triceps surae may be stretched by a daily exercise of standing upon a slant board.
COLBERT will rest on springs that are hooked to dampers, which are then connected to a standard-sized rack that has been extensively reinforced in order to handle the power produced by COLBERT users.
The dress was hand-made by Butler's friend Carol Knotts, from a Simplicity Pattern with added lace trim.
Construction In Goma, where chukudus form the "backbone of the local transportation system", chukudus are made of hard mumba wood and eucalyptus wood, with scrap tires for wheel treads.
Gold Weave Cotton: This material is in-between the single and double weave with regards to weight and durability.
Some visors have a very large bill that can shade most of the entire face, while others have a bill similar to that of a baseball cap.
Manufacturers such as Manduka make recycled foam blocks, offering the combination of a light and strong prop with a low ecological impact.
Moon created earlier versions from wood in the late 1980s and 1990s, which he built with British climber Andy Pollitt as rudimentary indoor extreme training climbing walls that could fit into the basement of their house in Sheffield.
The blade should be strong enough to split (reindeer) bones, and tempered to sustain low temperatures.
Some manufacturers specify the size of their beach balls (which is often confused with the diameter) as the tip-to-tip length of a deflated ball (approximately half the circumference), or even the length of the panels before they have their ends cut and joined into a beach ball.
Construction techniques include radio-frequency welding, sewing (a seam-tape is used to seal over needle holes) and gluing.
Some research suggests that certain vibrating machines might help improve strength and balance, but our experts said it's unclear whether the Soloflex would.
A bodystocking differs from a unitard, which is worn as an outfit or article of clothing, and a leotard, which is used as a practice garment or performance costume for acrobats, gymnasts and other similar performers.
Similar large balls were said to have been used in Persia, specifically by Persian wrestlers, as well as by gladiators.
When worn, a canoe pack must ride below the level of the shoulders in order to accommodate the wearer also carrying a canoe.
Interactive materials Researchers at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, an Australian science agency, created a garment that can monitor movement and give feedback.
They make textile floor coverings, curtains, upholstery, decorative fabrics and Artificial turf for sports use.
Career Flying Disc Freestyle World Champion Dwork is a two-time world champion flying disc freestyle athlete.
He moved to North Berwick and after enjoying success in competitions at Dunbar, Hoylake and other courses he took up ballmaking, and also began to enter The Open Championship.
Rubber bands in orthodontics Special rubber bands of medical-grade latex can be used (worn) for orthodontic correction of teeth position together with metal braces or clear aligners to apply additional pressure on the teeth being straightened.
The Springbar tent design has remained largely unchanged over the years and has inspired a number of other Springbar models.
Functions In contrast to most other eye glasses, shooting glasses usually only have one lens that corrects the ametropia of the dominant eye, which is used for aiming.
XXL AS is a Norwegian sporting goods retailer with brick and mortar stores and online stores in the Nordics.
For instance, a loose 'club cut' offering relaxed fit for recreational cyclists, and a form-fitting 'race cut' featuring a tailored fit that is tighter and shorter.
In 1988, Total Gym moved into the physical therapy field, and as of February 2022 most or all of the home equipment line is made in China.
It consists of a small metal plate with a slot that allows a bight of rope to pass through to a locking carabiner and back out.
by the private equity firm Fenway Partners, and served as the holding company for Fenway's two sports properties, Riddell Sports and Bell Sports.
The wrist roller is a device designed for strengthening the forearm muscles together in a rolling-pulling motion.
Purpose-made stand-alone flies are also sometimes referred to as bivouacs, bivvies, tarpaulins, or hootchies.
A dynamic rope is a specially constructed, somewhat elastic rope used primarily in rock climbing, ice climbing, and mountaineering.
This is because juggling balls are the easiest to juggle, can be manufactured (or home-made) in small sizes and light weights, and beanbags can be underfilled to facilitate catching.
Total Gym Direct website (Total Gym Fitness) with home equipment focus., totalgymdirect.com, retrieved on 2022-02-20.
One of the first to use this method was pioneer aerodynamicist George Cayley, who used rubber band-driven motors for powering his small experimental models.
The technique was used extensively in competitive events by John Dwork, Jason Salkey, Richie Smits, Joey Hudoklin, and Randy Silvey.
When not worn as athletic wear, gymslips or pinafore dresses are generally worn over a blouse and replace a skirt.
The simplest and most traditional Duluth pack comprises a single large envelope which is closed by straps and roller buckles.
See also Baseball glove Batting glove Boxing glove Cycling glove Driving glove Goalkeeper glove Golf gloves Glove (ice hockey) MMA gloves Wicket-keeper's gloves == References ==
This was the principle employed by WW2-period British inventor Barnes Wallace when he developed the "bouncing bomb" used in the famous "Dam Busters" raid against the Ruhr District dams.
Common sewn lengths include 10 centimetres (3.9 in), 30 centimetres (12 in), 60 centimetres (24 in), 120 centimetres (47 in) and 240 centimetres (94 in).
Originally, it was intended to be played in confined space or otherwise small area, but became a popular outdoor activity.
Dick's Sporting Goods contacted him to become a retailer of Spikeball equipment in early 2013, followed by Big 5 and Modell's Sporting Goods.
Wheels Xootr wheels were originally sold in two styles: standard (translucent yellow) and ultra (black), with the ultra wheels having 10% lower rolling resistance.
Origins Callahan wasn't able to find suitable chairs for competitive wheelchair basketball, and started building his own in the early 1980s.
This in turn will cause the pressure-relief valve in the filler cap to open and the over-pressurized gas vapor to escape, which may catch fire and result in a dangerous "flareup" or large fireball.
Georges Salomon is credited with taking the company and evolving it toward the global outdoor sports brand it is today.
Some water hogs can suck off excess water at a rate of 200 gallons per minute and throw it as far as 100 feet away from the machine.
Another one is the open-source OpenOrienteering Mapper application, created by the community as a free alternative to OCAD.
The regulations state that pucks should be a bright distinctive colour, for example high-visibility pink or orange, and that for World Championships these are the only acceptable colours.
While different sized sliotars are used for different ages and codes (with, for example, senior camogie games using a "size 4" sliotar, and senior hurling a "size 5" ball), some claims have historically been made of non-standard balls being used to gain a perceived advantage in competition.
Sherburne found his way into golf club fitting in 1998 by helping with club repairs and custom fitting at EJL Golf.
As few were produced and the two that were submitted to the German patent authority disappeared for many years, little is known in the tennis world about the Fortissimo.
For "double" ropes the weight is 55 kg, and for "twin" ropes two strands are used, and the requirements are the same as for a single rope --and twin ropes typically endure more drops.
Soloflex's WBV Platform made news in July 2007 for a Consumer Reports review that demonstrated it had been using claims from research that may not apply to their machine.
To match the leisurely atmosphere of bowling, bowlers began wearing shirts designed explicitly for the sport.
Handle styles Handle selection is primarily an ergonomic preference, though it can impact grip transitions during play: Flared (FL): The most common style, widening at the base to provide a secure grip during high-velocity swings.
Thus, if the camera is too close to the ball lens, the background around the ball will be completely blurred.
drive-by A deadpoint where one arm crosses over the other to reach a hold that is above and to the side.
These systems are also used in the training of athletes, and many add-on products have been developed to assist with this process.
Depending on their specific condition, climbers may utilize adaptive equipment or rely on their upper body strength to climb Autism: The autism category is for climbers with autism spectrum disorder.
The lusikkahaarukka are hard wearing, so much so that new conscripts are still issued with units manufactured during World War II.
The infrared lamps heat the body, encouraging increased sweating to help eliminate residual water and toxins.
This process was chosen as it gave a higher quality for the fine line-work than the industry standard four-colour process (CMYK).
Belts worn with võ phục for Vovinam are similar to those of Japanese martial arts in that they are constructed using the same techniques and materials.
Originally, Trangia stoves were made entirely from aluminium (except for the burner, which has always been brass), in order to keep them lightweight.
Most modern Association footballs are stitched from 32 panels of waterproofed leather or plastic: 12 regular pentagons and 20 regular hexagons are used because of its contrasting colors, which makes it easier for viewers to follow the movement.
However, in 2015, the National Collegiate Athletic Association increased restrictions on men wearing crop tops, which also includes rolling up longer jerseys, giving no reason for the change.
Magazine') test of 21 camp stoves which concluded "For boiling water quickly or washing up there is nothing to beat a Sirram Volcano, either at home or abroad".
Typically made of stamped steel or forged alloy, it has a large hole at the bottom for connecting to one's harness and a smaller hole at the top for attaching a retrieval cord in case of a fall.
Groups scaling Mount Hood are recommended to carry an emergency signaling device and all climbers must register before climbing and sign out upon return.
Ovid emphasizes that Cephalus (who is the narrator of the events) dares not say how he acquired the dog and the javelin from Procris, hinting that Cephalus himself was seduced and tricked in the same manner as he did Procris, like in the versions Antoninus Liberalis and Hyginus related.
Club career Early years Born in Nkawkaw, Dwamena played and trained with the Red Bull Ghana developmental program.
Major Fiennes Cornwallis, born Fiennes Wykeham-Martin (1 November 1831 – 24 April 1867), was a British Army officer and related to the Cornwallis family.
Causes of death during the marathon The most frequent causes are: sudden cardiac death, triggered by a congenital or acquired heart disorder (ion channelopathies); exercise-associated hyponatremia or other electrolyte imbalance; exertional heat stroke or severe hyperthermia.
He had a great opening in One day cricket as he scored 64 in his first match and 102 in his sixth match as he won the man of the series against Australia for scoring 278 runs at an average of 55.60 per innings with a century and 2 fifties.
The ceiling of the Arch is 55 m (170 ft) deep, which requires suitable training and equipment as 40 metres is generally considered the limit for recreational diving.
In 2001, shortly after withdrawing from the 2001 World Championships for disciplinary reasons, he was caught using cocaine in a police razzia.
During his playing career, Raja was known primarily as a dashing middle-order left-handed batsman, with a characteristically generous backlift and breathtaking strokeplay combining a keen eye with wristy execution.
Deaths in motorsport can be categorised as follows: Driver deaths in motorsport This section covers all driver deaths in car or truck racing events.
Politics In 1893, Connor was elected to parliament in a by-election for the seat of East Kimberley, caused by the death of the sitting member, William Baker.
Under Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Möllemann occupied several cabinet positions in the 1980s and early 1990s.
Marriage and family On 25 May 1903 at Vienna, Elias married Archduchess Maria Anna of Austria (1882–1940), daughter of Archduke Friedrich, Duke of Teschen, and a niece of Queen Maria Cristina of Spain.
He studied at Coleridge & Parry School and was part of its athletics team that had won multiple titles during the 1960s; he was teammates with fellow Olympian and sprinter Hadley Hinds.
A second drop, by parachutist Saul Debever and his monkey, was halted under threat of prosecution by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
On September 29, 1988 he successfully jumped 160 feet (49 m) from the Gerald Desmond Bridge in Long Beach, California.
This led to widespread conspiracies, particularly witchcraft, which is a major superstition in western and central Africa.
The film was directed by Austin Sayre, and produced by Three Chords And The Truth, alongside Brian Easley and Stephanie Moore.
Chalibashvili is the only water sports athlete known to have died as a direct result of a mishap during training or competition at an international multi-sport event such as the World University Games, Olympic Games or Commonwealth Games.
They also noted Karns's failure to disclose his equipment's inability to navigate and communicate at the same time.
Weiss also competed in two Summer Olympics, earning his best finish of sixth in the K1 event in Atlanta in 1996.
Zhang Zhijie (simplified Chinese: 张志杰; traditional Chinese: 張志傑; pinyin: Zhāng Zhìjié; 30 January 2007 – 30 June 2024) was a Chinese badminton player.
The position required much tact and skill as a diplomat which Mason carried out successfully, much to the advantage of the Sultan and the state.
In a narrow part of the lower course less than twenty seconds from the finish, Maier's right ski caught an inside edge at 105 km/h (65 mph), possibly from a patch of soft snow, and caused a violent crash which broke her neck.
His best two seasons were 1977 and 1978, finishing runner-up to compatriot Franz Klammer in the downhill standings both years.
He was a runner-up at continental level on three occasions, taking the 800 m silver at the African Championships in Athletics in 2000 and at the All-Africa Games in 2003 and 2007.
Later that year, Cavagnoud was involved in a high-speed collision while training and died two days later.
1855), daughter of John Manners, 5th Duke of Rutland, by whom he had three children: Archibald Henry Plantagenet Stuart-Wortley (26 July 1832 – 30 April 1890), married on 15 June 1879 Lavinia Rebecca Gibbins (d.
He arrived in Sydney, Australia, in 1885, and from there went to Wyndham, a small town in Western Australia's Kimberley region.
In 1119, possibly inspired by the news of the defeat of crusader forces at the Battle of the Field of Blood, and at a time when Pope Callixtus II was nearby in France, Fulk decided to take the cross as a crusader.
Exhibition Andreasen was also noted for his exhibition diving, showcasing his talents at the dedication ceremonies for the Peck Park swimming pool in San Pedro in 1962.
He represented the district of Lake Melville in the Newfoundland and Labrador House of Assembly from 2003 to 2011.
The young people who died had approached the area to hunt rabbits that were escaping from the fire, but a change in the wind direction spread the flames rapidly, and they were unable to get out of the burning plantation.
Laboratory tests of the parachute straps revealed that fibres from the severed risers were present on Hilder's body, while DNA tests on the parachute straps revealed the presence of Hilder's DNA alone.
The ball was bowled by his younger brother Clive Smith, who later played football for North Melbourne.
Borcke commanded the Prussian 9th Infantry Brigade of the Third Corps during the Hundred Days Campaign against Napoleon and fought in the battle of Ligny and was then the commander of the Fortress of Luxembourg in 1815.
List Background shading indicates the individual was not practicing or participating in sport skiing.
The second major risk arises from imbalanced fluid or electrolyte levels, particularly hyponatremia (sodium deficiency, overhydration, or water intoxication).
Richardson made her Broadway debut in 1993 in the title role of Anna Christie, which is where she met future husband Liam Neeson.
He is known for breaking the land speed record three times and being the first man to break the 100 km/h barrier.
In the year 1691, Aylva commanded the armed forces of the Dutch Republic in Brabant, and had his quarters in Leuven.
References External links Vougiouklaki Penelope, "John I Grand Komnenos", Encyclopedia of the Hellenic World: Asia Minor
The league also instituted a program that would allow key personnel to have access to a standard set of medical information about all players in the league, dubbed a "medical passport." After his death, the New York Rangers sought compensation in the form of an extra draft pick from the NHL.
He competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics and his best international achievement was a sixth place at the 2003 World Indoor Championships.
Having studied for a diploma in education at Ulster University, Milling moved into the teaching profession.
However,Scott Sorenson, the lodge owner who rescued the survivors and testified at the inquest, takes a very different point of view in his book.
2002: Ranked #1 in Powder Magazine’s Reader Poll and invented a revolutionary powder ski: The Volant Spatula with reverse camber and reverse sidecut.
He inherited the Lawrenny, Rosemarket, and Nash estates in 1851 on the death of Sir William Owen-Barlow, 8th Baronet.
List of rotational falls resulting in fatalities Australia On 6 March 2016 Olivia Inglis was fatally injured when she and her horse Coriolanus fell at the second fence of a combination during the cross country phase of Scone Horse Trials in New South Wales.
In 1909 he developed a keen interest in the newborn Corpo Aeronautico Militare ("Military Aviation Corps") of the Regio Esercito (Italian Royal Army), joining many aviation pioneers.
Officials who worked in notable high level amateur sports (such as NCAA Division I college sports and Major Junior ice hockey), and officials who worked world championship or Olympic/Paralympic events shortly before their deaths are treated as professional.
Charles Leroux was an inventor at heart, independently making numerous improvements to his balloon and parachute.
Major results References External links Wouter Weylandt at UCI Wouter Weylandt at Cycling Archives Wouter Weylandt at ProCyclingStats Wouter Weylandt at Cycling Quotient
During his reign the Mahavamsa chronicle was continued from the time of Parakramabahu IV of Dambadeniya.
In December 1948, he graduated from advanced training of division commanders at the Frunze Military Academy.
After he played on the freshman football squad for the 1963 season, Dowdy stated as an offensive tackle for the three years that followed.
His funeral took place on 17 March at the Royal Military Academy in Sandhurst, with the Queen, the Prince and Princess of Wales, and the Duke and Duchess of York attending.
Coombs Outdoors was established in 2013 to offer children from low-income families the guidance, support, and equipment required to participate in the amazing outdoor adventure experiences and sports activities that define the Jackson Community.
Albert Lucas (September 1, 1978 – April 10, 2005) was an American professional football player who played in the National Football League (NFL) and Arena Football League (AFL).
The Spanish and their allies arrived at the lakeshore after a day's hard march, without encountering any opposition.
In 1921 it was said that he was one of the most dangerous batsmen in England that is not quite first class, but his defence was not sound enough to bring him consistent success against the best bowlers.
Mann was elected as a Democrat to the 66th Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Asbury Francis Lever and served from October 7, 1919, to March 3, 1921.
Boudgie, an African parachuting monkey, received a North Africa campaign ribbon and was credited with saving the life of her handler four times.
In his last year as a junior, Toledo won the silver medal in the 2012 World Junior Championships in Athletics in Barcelona.
According to the results of an autopsy, Bowie died as a result of complications related to childbirth, among which were eclampsia, respiratory distress and high blood pressure.
He was educated at Wellington College from 1908 to 1912, before going up to the Royal Military College, Sandhurst in 1913.
In 2011 Braian protagonized a publicity spot for the campaign of Cristina Fernández de Kirchner in the presidential elections.
International competitions 1Did not finish in the final References External links Nicholas Bett at World Athletics
During his professional boxing career, he earned an associate degree in nutrition from Nassau Community College, and a bachelor's degree in health and wellness from Kaplan University.
He also travelled extensively to do research on snowfall and glaciers in Greenland, Alaska, and notably the Blue Glacier on Mount Olympus in Washington.
He scored his first goal for the club and the second of his career on 15 August 2015; a late penalty in a 2–0 victory at home to Stuttgarter Kickers.
In order to further legitimatize his rule as duke, he married Gisela of Swabia, the eldest sister of Hermann.
Biography George Lort Phillips was born in Stokenham, Devon, the eldest son of John Lort Philipps by his marriage to Augusta Ilbert.
Lamba left Gaekwad in the shade with 320 in 720 minutes which was scored off 471 balls including six 6s and thirty 4s.
Other examples of the genre include Pamphilus and Eurydice (the earliest identified example), and Cyanippus and Leucone.
Dallas was awarded the Military Cross in October 1916 for conspicuous gallantry while undertaking duties as a Forward Observation Officer, for which he was wounded twice.
International career Foé began representing Cameroon at under-20s when he was called up to the squad of 18 players for the 1993 FIFA World Youth Championship in Australia, under the management of Jean Manga-Onguéné.
On August 6, 2008, he completed the first "FreeBASE" ascent of Deep Blue Sea on the north face of the Eiger.
Later in 1935, an article in Popular Science featured a successful Soviet experimental parachute for a locked coop for dogs that sprang open when it hit the ground.
Big wall In July 2006, Potter climbed The Reticent Wall, one of the hardest routes on El Capitan in Yosemite Valley, in 34 hours and 57 minutes with Ammon McNeely and Ivo Ninov, slashing five days off the existing time.
In the First World War, he served in the Royal Garrison Artillery, from 1915, and was promoted to Company Quartermaster Sergeant in 1916 until being discharged due to 'disability' in 1919.
Peralta was one of the most prominent supporters of the government of General Francisco Morazán, who rose to power on 12 April 1842.
In January 1840 the Texas Congress elected him to serve as judge of the Sixth Judicial District, an appointment which also made him an associate justice of the Texas Supreme Court.
He has destroyed ten enemy machines, and shown the greatest determination at his work." Post-war After the war Mauduit returned to his cavalry regiment, the 7th Dragoon Guards, in which he was promoted to captain on 20 November 1919.
Competition record References External links Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at IMDb Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at World Athletics Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at Olympics at Sports-Reference.com (archived) Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at Olympics.com
Aftermath and accusations of witchcraft After the strike, all members of the Basanga team had been completely unscathed, while their opponents lay dead on the pitch.
The number of Blue Hole fatalities is not accurately recorded; one source estimates 130 divers died during the fifteen-year period from 1997 to 2012, averaging over eight per year, another claims as many as 200.
* – Most laps led.) Winston Cup Series Daytona 500 Busch Series Winston West Series Busch North Series International Race of Champions ARCA Hooters SuperCar Series 24 Hours of Daytona See also Dale Earnhardt, Inc.
References External links Media related to Les McKeand at Wikimedia Commons Leslie 'Les' McKeand at Australian Athletics Historical Results
See also List of members of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine who died in office References External links Official website of Ihor Yeremeyev Archived 2014-03-04 at the Wayback Machine (in Ukrainian)
An underdog at the 1972 Olympics in Munich in September, Prefontaine took the lead in the 5,000 m final during the last mile and ended the slow pace of the first two miles, negative splitting the race.
Aftermath Rostom suspected his heir's death was not an accident and requested an inquiry from Isfahan, but nothing came of this as the shah's government was preoccupied with the war in Kandahar.
He set a new personal best time in the men's 400 metres at a competition in 1972, recording a time of 47.2 seconds.
29 March 1912), married on 4 July 1863 Sir William Earle Welby-Gregory, 4th Baronet He died in 1844 of the effects of a hunting accident suffered earlier in life.
Representing the Central YMCA, Duffy came in second in the 1911 Ward Marathon, a 20-mile (32 km) event in Toronto.
A week prior to his win at the world championships in 1978, Walcher won consecutive downhills at Kitzbühel, Austria.
He wrote the short travelogue Cesta do Lužic vykonaná na jar 1839 ("A journey to Lusatia made in the spring of 1839"), written in Czech and published in the Czech journal Časopis českého musea.
McWethy was born in Aurora, Illinois, and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1969 from DePauw University, where he was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity.
Free scores by Mieczysław Karłowicz at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP) Complete CD discography of Karłowicz up to 2009 "Karłowicz's Stone - the last itinerary of Mieczyslaw Karłowicz (music, photos, videos, maps)".
This record was again broken by Chasseloup-Laubat, who applied rudimentary streamlining to his Jeantaud.
Legacy Saborios's rebellion did not result in any territorial losses for Byzantium, but was important nonetheless as the first attested rebellion of a thematic force, heralding a number of similar revolts during the remainder of the 7th and throughout the 8th centuries.
Tom Compernolle (13 November 1975 – 16 June 2008) was a Belgian runner, who specialized in the 5000 metres.
See also Victoria Cilliers, skydiver who survived a murder attempt on her in 2015 Death of Stephen Hilder, in a parachute incident in 2003 == References ==
Media The incident was covered by the BBC's Crimewatch in an episode aired on 24 July 2003, and by ITV Studios in a 2011 documentary titled Real Crime: Sky Diver Murder or Suicide?
In 1592, Manuchar married his second wife Tamar (born 1561), daughter of Kaikhosro II Jaqeli, Prince of Samtskhe and widow of the nobleman Kaikhosro Oravzhandashvili and of Vakhtang I Gurieli, Prince of Guria.
Smith died on 27 October 1941 as a result of an injury sustained while batting in a cricket match for Werribee South two days earlier.
Brathwaite's son Sean became a police officer, serving the Eugene Police Department and the University of Oregon Police Department.
Niels Baunsøe clutched his jersey, keeping him from falling, while Vagn Bangsborg held Enemark Jensen from the other side.
John Lewis Dodge (April 27, 1893 – June 19, 1916) was an American third baseman in Major League Baseball from 1912 until 1913.
On 23 January 2020, a fire was started in the Agrícola del Lago reed bed in Cagua, Aragua state, Venezuela.
The plane, which had not been modified for skydiving, became overloaded toward the rear when they initially attempted to load it with all comers, and so less experienced divers were asked to make way for the 20 most experienced.
She claimed her second national title at the 2017 National Athletics Championships which she successfully defended.
Kushnaryov entered the Odessa Institute of Civil Engineering, but after the first year, by decision of his father, he transferred to the Kharkov Institute of Civil Engineering, which he graduated in 1973, receiving a degree in mechanical engineering.
After the death of his father (1662), his older brother Johann Ernst II inherited Weimar, and his second brother Adolf Wilhelm received Eisenach.
British forces were fighting to stabilise the British line and the Northumbrian Division's units were thrown in piecemeal.
NFL career statistics Death On April 10, 2005, in a game against the New York Dragons, Lucas tackled Corey Johnson during a kickoff return with 10:17 to go in the first quarter.
According to the historian Oscar Halecki, Louis wished to divide his kingdoms between his two surviving daughters, but Pál Engel and Claude Michaud write that the ailing king wanted to bequeath both Hungary and Poland on Mary and Sigismund.
In addition, there has been widespread condemnation in China over the actions of the medical staff at the venue.
List Non-health-related marathon fatalities See also Phidippides cardiomyopathy Lists of sportspeople who died during their careers References Further reading Burfoot, Amby.
He played a single first-class cricket match for the Gentlemen of the South against the Gentlemen of the North at Beeston in 1870, batting once in the match and being dismissed without scoring by A.
Their plan was to accomplish the first descent of a 140-mile (225 km) section of the Tsangpo, passing the deepest river gorge on earth, the more than 4877 meter (16,000 ft) deep gorge between 7782-meter Namjagbarwa Feng and 7194-meter Gyala Peri.
References External links Official website Sarah Burke Foundation Sarah Burke, Game Designer Archived July 21, 2018, at the Wayback Machine – The Ski Channel wrote a story on 06/18/09 about Sarah's new video game, LittleBigPlanet.
His best chance to medal was in 1960 at Squaw Valley, but he broke his right leg while slalom training in Aspen in December 1959, just two months before the games.
He had been participating in a week-long British Collegiate Parachute Association championship skydiving competition with his "Black Rain" teammates and fellow officer cadets, Adrian Blair and David Mason (both aged 19), who had all made over 200 jumps each.
When Leo was born, Michael III celebrated the event with public chariot races, whilst he pointedly instructed Basil not to presume on his new position as junior emperor.
According to the official version, Frédéric Vandewalle wrote, Samalenge was the victim of a hunting accident caused by a member of his cabinet, but the public rumour suggested an assassination.
The family has roots in the African city of Freetown, Sierra Leone where relative Joseph Kpana-Quamoh attended Albert Academy before immigrating to America and earning degrees from Lipscomb University and Fisk University.
Robert Allen Gutowski (25 April 1935 – 2 August 1960) was an American athlete who competed mainly in the pole vault.
High school See also Sudden cardiac death of athletes Kobe Bryant, 41, died in a helicopter crash alongside his 13-year-old daughter Gianna and seven other individuals.
To strengthen Mary's position against Charles of Naples, Queen Elizabeth sent her envoys to France and opened negotiations on the marriage of Mary to the younger brother of Charles VI of France, Louis, who had once been engaged to Mary's sister, Catherine.
After the attack on Shamrock, Hart became the co-leader, with The Rock, of the Nation of Domination, claiming that "Enough is enough and it's time for a change".
Although Menes does not appear on extant pieces of the Royal Annals (Cairo Stone and Palermo Stone), his name appears in later sources as the first ruler of Egypt.
In the meantime, Prince Shiosh Baratashvili denounced Prince Baindur Tumanishvili as a possible murderer and had him publicly tried by single combat in Tbilisi.
Brian Faulkner was a member of the Apprentice Boys of Derry but was expelled from the group in 1971.
His 320 in the Duleep Trophy for North Zone against West Zone in the final at Bhilai in 1986-87 still remains among the highest individual scores.
The following year he played in what would be his only match in first-class cricket, against Scotland at Coleraine.
Edward Randle "Ed" LaChapelle (May 31, 1926 – February 1, 2007) was an American avalanche researcher, glaciologist, mountaineer, skier, author, and professor.
He made two further appearances in List A cricket, against Northamptonshire in the 1987 NatWest Trophy, and Gloucestershire in the 1988 NatWest Trophy.
Over the next two seasons, he averaged less than thirty with the ball, taking 129 wickets, and in one match, had match figures of 12/57.
In 2005, during the referendum campaign on registered partnership in Switzerland for same-sex couples, Nobs came out publicly to support the new law.
The son of Charles Mowbray Dallas and his wife Catherine, he was born in British India at Kasauli in August 1895.
Bett began to compete on the international track and field circuit in 2015 and had wins at the Savo Games and Lappeenranta Games in Finland.
Olympic results ^ Walcher made the downhill team in 1980 but was dropped the day before the race, replaced by alternate Leonhard Stock, who won the gold medal.
He also competed in Belgium's domestic cross country series, the Lotto Cross Cup, and won the series in the 1999–2000 season.
The piece describes Raja’s instinct to dominate from the outset and his dazzling left-handed strokeplay, high backlift powering fierce square-cuts, cover drives, pulls and hooks, contrasting his power with a lean, wiry build.
Sir Frank Cecil Meyer, 2nd Baronet (7 May 1886 – 19 October 1935) was a British businessman and Conservative Party politician.
Born in Lowndesville, South Carolina, Mann attended the common schools and was graduated from The Citadel, Charleston, South Carolina, in 1901.
Jorma Rainer Valkama (4 October 1928 – 11 December 1962) was a Finnish athlete who competed mainly in the long jump and participated at three Olympic Games.
He was called into the senior team as part of the 30-man squad for the 2017 African Cup of Nations but was dropped from the 23-man squad.
Coach After retiring from playing football, Ehrhardt became a football coach at Decatur High School in Decatur, Georgia, where he also taught math, physical education, and was the assistant principal.
After he was traded to the Cincinnati Reds for Beals Becker, Dodge played all of his games at third base.
Playing career College After a successful high school playing career at Cherokee Vocational High School that culminated with his selection to the 16th annual AHSAA All-Star Game in 1963, Dowdy enrolled at the University of Alabama with an athletic scholarship to play on the football team.
There, tributes in the shape of funerary wreaths from those in the bullfighting world wishing to express their condolences began to arrive in considerable numbers.
* : Member of the Hockey Hall of Fame World War I World War II Two National Hockey League players were killed in World War II.
Notes References Clive Dunn, The Fighting Pioneers: the Story of the 7th Durham Light Infantry, Barnsley: Pen & Sword, 2015, ISBN 978-1-47382-348-8.
To save up money DeAndre took a job at a Kroger supermarket located at 3410 Gallatin Pike down the street from his family's home.
Examination by physicians, however, showed that his face was crushed in such a manner that complications might result and he was taken to a hospital, but nothing medical aid could do would save his life." Dodge died the following night, at the age of 23.
He suffered from mononucleosis the following season, but returned strong beating Roger Moens's 1955 national 800 m record.
He also had three quarterback sacks, three fumble recoveries (one for a touchdown), two batted down passes, a forced fumble, and a safety.
Sad news to my soul..." Personal bests 800 metres – 1:42.86 min (2009) 800 metres (indoor) – 1:44.91 min (2008) 1000 metres – 2:15.86 min (2007) 1500 metres – 3:38.55 min (2008) Honours Mulaudzi was awarded the Order of Ikhamanga in bronze (posthumously) in 2015.
He participated in a battle against the Seljuk Sultan near Tikrit and saved Zengi's life when he assisted his retreat across the Tigris.
In June 1936, he became the chief of staff of the 1st Airborne Regiment and its commander in August 1937.
When they realised it was Jenatzy, they rushed him to hospital by car; he bled to death en route, fulfilling his own prophecy he would die in a Mercedes.
Biography Borcke was born in Stargard, Province of Pomerania, Kingdom of Prussia (today Poland) to Ernst Gottlieb Kurt von Borcke (1757–1816) and Anna Margarethe née Greinert (1750–1804).
His son, Abd al-Rahman ibn Mu'awiya, was the founder of the Emirate of Córdoba and the Umayyad line of al-Andalus.
The following year he took the field with South Melbourne and played eight games in his first season and one more in 1905.
All cases in the list below are from alpine or downhill skiing activities; no skiers have been known to have died in any major international ski jumping competitions (e.g.
Herbert Frederick Lemp (June 24, 1884 – May 6, 1927) served briefly as mayor of Boise, Idaho, before his death in May 1927.
Like most of the late Romantics he also fell under the considerable influence of Richard Wagner, especially with Tristan und Isolde.
Ian Victor Gillibrand (24 November 1948 – 2 September 1989) was an English football defender who spent his entire senior career with Wigan Athletic.
Death Chalibashvili died at the age of 21 following an accident during competition at the 1983 Summer Universiade in Edmonton, Alberta, when he hit his head on the platform while attempting a reverse 3½ somersault in the tuck position.
Scurry (November 11, 1811 – April 9, 1862) was a Texas politician and a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives.
The resort was fined $50,000 for multiple violations, including lack of hazard evaluation, improper training, and missing warning signs.
Srikkanth, he remained on the field even though Srikkanth had already arrived on the field quietly, without requesting Raman Lamba to go back to the pavilion.
Olympic debut Goumri improved one place to 14th in the long race at the 2004 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, but the Moroccans were edged into fourth by the Eritrean team.
Muslim sources attribute to him the capture of the fortress of Charsianon in September/October 730, but Byzantine sources state that this was done by Mu'awiya's uncle, Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik.
His finish in the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona was mired in controversy when the television replay showed a judge's error cost him a bronze medal.
It was filmed in Los Angeles and featured Jimi Hendrix's cover of Bob Dylan's "All Along the Watchtower".
This list only includes active drivers who died due to circumstances outside of a NASCAR race, and includes full-time, part-time, suspended, or partially-retired drivers.
At city marathons, Syster finished fifth in the 2002 London Marathon, and won the Beijing Marathon the following year.
Driver and co-driver deaths in rallying events Rallying is an offroad motorsport, generally featuring a number of timed stages on varying surfaces to crown an overall winner.
But he returned to competitive athletics and at the World Masters Athletics Championships in 2018 he took gold in the M45 100 m in a new British record, and also won the 4 × 100 m relay.
Investigation In the immediate aftermath of Cherepanov's death, there were many conflicting reports and accusations.
4271 on 24 February 1917, after flying the L & P Biplane at the London & Provincial School at Hendon Aerodrome.
He was educated at Harrow School, where he played for the cricket eleven, before going up to St John's College, Oxford.
Throughout his time in parliament he sat on the opposition benches, with the government being led by the Liberals with Palmerston and later Russell as Prime Minister.
Krenz continued his throwing career after graduating from Stanford, joining the San Francisco Olympic Club.
Rajesh Ghodge (15 January 1975 – 13 January 2019) was an Indian cricketer who played in two first-class and eight List A matches for Goa between 1997 and 2005.
References External links Official Site Archived 3 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine Official player profile on TSW Pegasus FC website
He was also a coach for the Pakistan Under-19 team, and an International Cricket Council match referee in 15 Tests and 34 ODIs from 2002 to 2004.
At 17, he became the youngest to climb the Seven Summits, a record now held by Jordan Romero at 15 years, 5 months and 12 days.
Biography In 1987 his 7:47.61 on the 3000 metres indoor was the second best season performance at the world.
Contemporaries of William raised concerns about a court dominated by homosexuality and effeminacy, epitomised more through seemingly "luxurious" attire and unusual footwear than with sexual practices.
Reported missing in action serving under German command in Broasca, Romania, on the Eastern Front on 23 August 1944 aged 30.
On 17 February 1973, he died in the morning after he had lost control of his car and had struck a utility pole, hurling him out the car.
The entry to the Arch is not easy to find because of the indirect line between the Blue Hole and open water.
Some suffered sudden cardiac death, which has a higher incidence in basketball among young athletes.
International career Whilst in Sri Lanka, Slack was rushed to the West Indies during England's 1985–86 tour to replace the injured Mike Gatting.
In a 1636 court case concerning a tithe dispute, a witness called Henry Mabbinck testified that he played cricket "in the Parke" at West Horsley in Surrey.
He was the Trinidad and Tobago 100/200 metres champion in 1978, and he won these titles again in 1983.
National Football League 1920–1965 1966–1995 1996–2021 2022–present Canadian Football League Minor league football and indoor football College Team vehicle and plane crashes Purdue: 14 members of football team were killed in a railroad collision (1903).
As they are informal titles, mentioning names of eminent singers without those appendages is acceptable, unlike prefixes like Dr.
He drew parallels between Baltic kriwe and Celtic druids and suggested that the common elements could be a result of either migration or date to the common Indo-European roots.
They paid certain ecclesiastical tributes, and seem to have closely resembled the termonn lands of the early Irish Church.
In the Zohar In Zoharistic Kabbalah, she is a queen of the demons and an angel of sacred prostitution, who mates with archangel Samael along with Lilith and Naamah, sometimes adding Eisheth as a fourth mate.
Other traditions According to Ulrich von Schroeder, Tibet has different traditions relating to the mahasiddhas.
Gossain, Gosain, Gosine, Gosyne, Gosein, or Gossai is a Hindi word derived from Sanskrit: गोस्वामी, romanized: gōsvāmī, lit.
Maimonides ruled that the hazzan who recited the prayers on an ordinary Shabbat and on weekdays need not possess an appearance pleasing to everybody.
According to Vishnumitra of Champa town, the commentator of Uvaṭa's commentary of Ṛgveda-Prātiśākhya, Ṛgveda-Prātiśākhya is attributed to Shaunaka who taught it to others in a satra-yajna (a 12-day very large scale collective yajna) held in Naimisha.
The Executive Minister along with Deputy Executive Minister and 11 other Senior Ministers (The Sanggunian or The Advisory Council of the Church) forms the Church's Central Administration.
In Burma, an eight precept nun is addressed as thilashin or sayalay, whereas a fully ordained woman is called a rahan-ma ("female monk").
Christian usage refers to Jesus Christ as the only high priest, for example in Catholic teaching he is described as "high priest of the new and eternal covenant".
See also Auscultation Notes References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Ìyánífá is a Yoruba word that can be translated as "mother (ìyá) has or of (ní) Ifá" or "mother in Ifá" and is the Yoruba title for mother of mysteries and the female equivalent of a babalawo.
Notable persons Kumaran Asan, one of the triumvirate poets of modern Kerala References External links Media related to Aasaan at Wikimedia Commons
The women lost their public reputation, their sense of shame, and even the ability to feel love or emotions.
Kavi Santokh Singh, in Suraj Prakash, describes this moment: Arrived at Hari Mandir, ragis were singing in rags’s high notes.
In other communities, a separate labor force of "lay brothers" or conversi was cultivated in order to handle the temporal business of the abbey.
The role of the mashgiach ruchani was strongest in the era before World War II, when often the mashgichim were responsible for maintaining the yeshiva financially, recruiting and interviewing new students, and hiring staff, something akin to academic deans.
In England, in 2012, Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis, the country's chief rabbi, appointed Lauren Levin as Britain's first Orthodox female halakhic adviser, at Finchley United Synagogue in London.
Abthain (or abthane) is an English or Lowland Scots form of the middle-Latin word abthania (Gaelic abdhaine), meaning abbacy.
In fact, the word gala was written using the sign sequence UŠ.KU, the first sign having also the reading g̃iš3 ("penis") & nita ("male"), and the second one bed3 ("anus") & dur2 ("buttocks"), meaning that might be a pun involved.
See also Satala Aphrodite Anahita Aramazd Astghik Vahagn Hayk Anat Sarpanit References Bibliography Boyce, Mary (1983), "Anāhīd", Encyclopædia Iranica, vol.
The Dharmasūtras and Dharmaśāstras give a number of detailed but widely divergent guidelines on renunciation.
Greek muftiates Office of the Grand Mufti of India (Barelvism) Office of the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Kazakh muftiates Kosovar muftiates Kyrgyz muftiates Lithuanian muftiates Macedonian muftiates Malaysia Malaysia has a unique system of collective mufti.
In Afghanistan and Pakistan, the title is given to graduates of a madrasa or Islamic school, who are then able to become a mosque leader, a teacher at a religious school, a local judge in a village or town, or to perform religious rituals.
However in the modern era they instead memorise the founding books of each field (sometimes in the form of poetry to aid memorisation).
Many Mahasiddhas practiced specific tantras, for example Brahman Kukkuripa (34th in Abhyadatta's list) of Kapilaśakru practiced Cakrasaṃvara Tantra, Monk Virūpa (3) of Somapuri practiced Hevajra for 12 years, Monk Karṇaripa (Aryadeva) (18) of Nālandā practiced Guhyasamāja.
History In 1788, the Russian Empire under Empress Catherine II established the first muftiate in Russia, named “The Orenburg Muslim Spiritual Assembly”, governed by a supreme mufti who oversaw the appointment of imams and the management of mosques across the empire.
Mithridates VI claimed to be a direct descendant of Alexander the Great and had fought against the Roman Generals: Sulla, Lucullus, and Pompey.
It is especially the name of a celebrated Sanskrit grammarian, author of the Ṛgveda-Prātiśākhya, the Bṛhaddevatā, the Caraṇa-vyūha, six Anukramaṇīs (indices) to the Rigveda, and the Vidhāna of the Rigveda.
In 1998, at the age of 29, he renounced worldly life and took Sanyas (monastic vows) under the guidance of his guru, Jagadguru Sri Sri Sri Dr.
The Ottoman Empire had a similar territorial division called a kadiluk, which was more concerned with justice and taxation than religion.
Based on hadiths, the period of time between Shu'ayib ibn Salih's resurrection and al-Mahdi reappearance is 72 months; and Shu'ayb ibn Salih's uprising is going to be after Awf-al-Silmi's uprising and likewise before Sufyani's insurrection.
Some songs summon the spirits, and others tell the spirits it is time to leave and end the ceremony.
Jehovah's Witnesses Among Jehovah's Witnesses, an elder is a man appointed to teach the congregation.
Above the seven amarkolim were two catholici, and these again were under the supervision of the high priest.
Among these traditions, two were particularly popular, namely the Abhayadatta Sri list and the so-called Vajrasana list.
The first literary reference to a volkhv occurs in the Primary Chronicle under the year 912; there, a volkhv predicts Prince Oleg's death.
These were traditionally Muftis who used interpretation (ijtihad) to clarify Islamic law, but in many modern secular contexts, Islamic law is no longer the law of the land.
They are: Manibhadra, the Perfect Wife Lakshmincara, The Princess of Crazy wisdom Mekhala, the elder of the 2 Headless Sisters Kanakhala, the younger of the 2 Headless Sisters List of the Mahasiddhas In Vajrayana Buddhism there are eighty-four Mahasiddhas.
According to the myth they could "spiritually communicate," i.e., travel to trading ports and see who would come to trade.
On 22 October 2009 Ajahn Brahm facilitated an ordination ceremony for bhikkhunis where four female Buddhists, Venerable Ajahn Vayama, and Venerables Nirodha, Seri and Hasapanna, were ordained into Ajahn Brahm's lineage.
He enjoys Shamhat for "six days and seven nights" (a fragment found in 2015 and read in 2018 appears to indicate that they had two weeks of sexual intercourse, with a break spent in discussion about Enkidu's future life in Uruk).
Acharya is a Sanskrit word meaning "teacher", so Shankaracharya means a "teacher in the tradition of Shankara".
Nonetheless, Freund's theories have been widely dismissed in academic circles, and the symbol is not much more than a typical warrior shield engraved in the Southwestern Stelae from the Iberian Peninsula, of which there are many examples.
Modern public fatwas have addressed and sometimes sparked controversies in the Muslim world and beyond.
Their purpose is to offer religious church services, counseling, and moral support to the armed forces, whether in peacetime or at war.
Later, after the spirits were cast into the lamp, Agrat bat Mahlat and her lamp were discovered by King David.
In Israel, Conservative/Masorti Judaism has not extended Torah honors either to a bat Kohen or to a bat Levi.
He shall be director of the choir and perform such other duties that the Board of directors may prescribe.
Protodeacon derives from the Greek proto- meaning 'first' and diakonos, which is a standard ancient Greek word meaning "assistant", "servant", or "waiting-man".
They provided nearly 300 units of LPG gas tanks and cooking stoves to displaced families to replace more dangerous portable kerosene stoves.
In medieval India, it was more narrowly used as a technical term for one who had gone through a specific initiation.
He also heads the Permanent Committee for Scholarly Research and Ifta, which oversees the preparation and issuance of official fatwas and conducts scholarly research on Islamic jurisprudence and theology.
In the Mandaean diaspora, shgandas, or alternatively learned laymen called yalufa, often perform minor priestly roles due to shortages of tarmida and ganzibra priests abroad.
The style was most common west of the Appalachian Mountains, where American settlement pushed westward throughout the 19th century.
Apart from the four, another monastery, Kanchi Kamkoti Peetham in South India, is also believed to have been established by Adi Shankara.
Some distinguished sayadaws would often be referred to as a sayadawgyi (ဆရာတော်ကြီး, as a sign of reverence.
The melamed was not allowed to punish his pupils too severely; and he had to teach both in the daytime and during part of the night.
in 1663), it is explained that Mahalath was daughter to Ishmael and his wife, who was herself daughter of Egyptian sorcerer Kasdiel.
See also Abu al-Barakat al-Nasafi Habib al-Rahman al-A'zami Shaykh al-Islām Seghatoleslam List of ayatollahs List of maraji == References ==
British period In the British ruling period, Islamic scholars noted Ahmed Raza Khan Barelvi who was the spiritual leader of Indian Muslims, scholar and revivalist.
Opposition to Luria Luria's Talmudic explanation that put a damper on the legitimacy of Jewish priests was not readily accepted amongst some scholars.
Shu'ayb bin Salih (Persian: شعیب بن صالح) or Saleh-ibn-Shu'ayb(or Shu'aib ibn Salih) is prophesied to rebel before the al-Mahdi's reappearance and his uprising is among the signs of the reappearance of the twelfth and final Imam of Shia Islam, the Mahdi according to some Islamic narrations.
Freund argued that a stele found at Cancho Roano displayed an image with concentric circles that matches Plato's description of Atlantis.
The ceremony is often very draining for the yuwipi man because of the focus needed to interact with the spirits and because the spirits use his life energy to heal the participants.
The permanent diaconate can be conferred on single men 25 or older, and on married men 35 or older, but an older age can be required by the episcopal conference.
Ramana Maharshi (1879–1950) was an "Indian sage" with a philosophy about the path to self-knowledge and the integration of personality espoused in books by author Paul Brunton and Ramana's own writings such as the Collected Works (1969) and Forty Verses on Reality (1978).
Controversies Army Chief of Chaplains The Office of the Chief of Chaplains was created by the National Defense Act of 1920 in order to better organize the chaplaincy; the position was first held by John T.
Muni (Sanskrit: मुनि, "silent") is a term for types of ancient Indian sages and hermits or ancient Indian ascetics.
Sages of this type are said to know the truth of existence not on the basis of scientific or religious texts but through their own realization.
While youth ministry was previously considered a stepping stone on the way to becoming priests, nuns and other important vocations, the trend is currently moving toward treating it as its own vocation.
In some countries, it is given as a surname to those of great knowledge in religious affairs, by a prestigious religious leader from a chain of Sufi scholars.
The first Landesrabbiner of whom there is authentic record is Judah Löw ben Bezaleel, of whom his contemporary David Gans says that he was for 20 years (1553–73) the spiritual head ("ab bet din") of all the Jewish congregations in the province of Moravia ("Ẓemaḥ Dawid", year 5352).
She also needed the knowledge of the several names of the kami that were important for her village, as well as their function.
The Greek word εὐαγγέλιον originally meant a reward given to the messenger for good news (εὔ = "good", ἀγγέλλω = "I bring a message"; the word "angel" comes from the same root) and later "good news" itself.
Singing and choirs were introduced without much controversy, but when it came to the organ, synagogues were more hesitant, even negative.
The term pontiff was later applied to any high or chief priest and, in Catholic ecclesiastical usage, to bishops, especially the Pope, who is sometimes referred to as the Roman Pontiff or the Supreme Pontiff.
Max" or "P.M." The office of Pontifex Maximus, or head of the College of Pontiffs, was held by Julius Caesar and thereafter, by the Roman emperors, until Gratian (375–383) relinquished it.
They also have the authority to consecrate new idols, though they occasionally appoint scholars to carry out this duty.
The purpose of the monastic life is union with God, the means is through leaving the world (i.e., the life of the passions).
Description and functions Genesis The main informations on the Slavic priesthood concerns the priesthood of the Polabian Slavs.
This medicinal heritage remains a cornerstone of the Yoruba diaspora; for example, in Brazilian Candomblé, the ritualistic use of "sacred leaves" continues to be the primary method for maintaining community health.
Vidutana, strong shamans standing in contact with the upper world Yanyani tadebya, shamans belonging to the earth Sambana shamans, shamans able to receive messages from dead people and to perform other rituals concerning the dead.
Non-Muslim usage The Kitáb-i-Íqán, the primary theological work of the Baháʼí Faith, applies the title Commander of the Faithful to Ali, the son-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
The Deuteronomic Code is the name given by academics to the law code set out in chapters 12 to 26 of the Book of Deuteronomy in the Hebrew Bible.
The prototype of this new type of rabbinical leader and educator was Rabbi Nosson Tzvi Finkel (1849-1927) known as the Alter (elder) of the Slabodka yeshiva, Yeshivas Knesses Yisrael (Slabodka), in Lithuania.
Following the example of Deoband, thousands of madrasas were founded during the late 19th century which adopted the Deobandi way of studying fundamental texts of Islam and commenting on Quran and Hadith.
Sex is viewed by them as a transcendence from a personal, intimate act to something impersonal and ascetic.
Today Buddhists make a decent proportion of several countries in the West such as New Zealand, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, France, and the United States.
The title "Hujjat al-Islam" is given to scholars with a high level of Islamic expertise and Islamic theology.
In 2019, nine foreigners were given the title Mahamandaleshwar for the first time at the Kumbh Mela.
At present, these are family lineage holders such as the great lamas of the Nyingma tradition, Minling Trichen Rinpoche and Sakya Trizin, the throne holder of the Dharma Potrang lineage.
The Ifa Odu Odi Ogbe speaks of a woman divining and performing ritual sacrifice for Orunmila by the name Eruko-ya-l'egan o d'Oosa also known as Orisa Oke.
Views Twelver Shi'ism Twelver Shias apply the title exclusively to Ali, the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad, regarded as the first Imam by Shia Muslims and officially designated successor (caliph) to Muhammad.
Grand Mufti is the title for the leading Islamic jurist of a country, typically Sunni, who may oversee other muftis.
Though the cantor's relationship to the new synagogue had been tenuous—at times eliminated altogether—CCAR's endorsement of the Union Hymnal also endorsed the role of the modern cantor: a trained musician familiar with Jewish tradition and sensitive to the needs of his community.
The newly elected abbot was to put off his shoes at the door of the church, and proceed barefoot to meet the members of the house advancing in a procession.
Athleta Christi (Latin: "Champion of Christ") was a class of Early Christian soldier martyrs or military saints, of whom the most familiar examples are Saint Sebastian and Saint George.
With the Cluniac Reforms, the term prior received a specific meaning; it supplanted the provost or dean (praepositus), spoken of in the Rule of St.
A Granthi must be able to interpret the sacred hymns written in the Guru Granth Sahib, referred to as Gurbani, and must be able to fluently deliver sermons to the Sangat at the Gurdwara.
[it is] an opportunity to serve." The church uses a lay clergy, with most members receiving no compensation for the execution of their callings.
He focussed his criticism both at those who use religious law as contemporary political proscription and at the history of rulers claiming legitimacy by the caliphate.
Depending on the size of the school and the status of the institution to which it was attached, the scholaster might be the only teacher, the head of a considerable educational establishment, or have oversight over all the schools in their city or territory.
Older grihastha with grown-up children are traditionally expected to accept vanaprastha (celibate retired) life.
Priest is the oldest, a borrowing into Old English via Latin, elder (first attested 1526) is a translation of the underlying meaning of the Greek word, and presbyter (1597) is a learned correction of the loan-word.
Retention in online communities is about making sure that the newcomers stick around and stay long enough to become more committed members, who take on more important responsibilities and begin to be identify themselves with the group.
Circuit preaching became common during and between the Second Great Awakening and Third Great Awakening in the United States.
During tarmida initiation ceremonies, shgandas, who represent emissaries from the World of Light, also help perform the rituals, many of which are held in a specially constructed priest initiation hut (škinta) and also a nearby temporary reed hut (andiruna).
The Dominican Order is officially known as the Order of Preachers (Ordo Praedicatorum in Latin); friars of this order were trained to publicly preach in vernacular languages, and the order was created by Saint Dominic to preach to the Cathars of southern France in the early thirteenth century.
Adolf Büchler has shown by referring to Josephus, Against Apion 2:8, that certain Temple officers handed the keys of the Temple to their successors each day, as a symbol of their charge — and these were none others than the amarkolim; who were, however, laymen and not priests.
Himmat Singh, one of the original Panj Piare of Sikhism was believed to be his reincarnation (avtar).
Additionally, some sources call al-Yamani "Mansour" and indicate he will assist Muhammad al-Mahdi in battle.
In the early medieval period, there was also mention of lay brothers attached to convents of women and of lay sisters attached to monasteries.
The sermon or homily has been an important part of Christian services since Early Christianity, and remains prominent in both Roman Catholicism and Protestantism.
For example, the Unitarian Universalist Association reserves the title of "the reverend" for ordained ministers.
In the early Christian church, this same concept was used to describe role of the bishop, who was responsible for seeing to it that the catechumens were properly prepared for baptism.
The meeting was to resolve any disputes over the management of shrine and set-out the framework for managing them, with the meeting being attended also by Deputy Commissioner Cooper.
Hindu, Jain, Tantric, Yogic and Vajrayana Buddhist traditions use the term sadhaka or sādhak for spiritual initiates and/or aspirants.
Those who left for the desert formed an alternate Christian society when becoming a Christian was no longer risky.
The coarb of Columba In medieval Ireland and Scotland, the coarb of St Columba (Medieval Gaelic comarba Coluim Chille) identified the abbots who succeeded Columba.
Pinkas (Account Book): A record book detailing funds collected and pledged by communities and individuals.
Various other titles like Munīndra (Sanskrit; Pali: Muninda; meaning "lord of Munis"), Munivar (Greatest among Munis), Munirāja (King of Munis), Munīśvara (Sanskrit; Pali: Munissaro; meaning "lord of Munis"), Mahāmuni (The great[est] Muni) are also given to the Buddhas.
These performances also feature symbols connected to the Passion of Jesus: the sistrum's swaying and the beating of the drums represent Christ's swaying while enduring beatings, and the tapping of the prayer sticks represent the flagellation of Christ.
Abbots in art and literature "The Abbot" is one of the archetypes traditionally illustrated in scenes of Danse Macabre.
Role of the cantor Judaism In Judaism, a cantor sings and leads congregants in prayer in religious services.
Allamah (Arabic: عَلَّامَة) is an Islamic honorary title for a profound scholar, a polymath, a man of vast reading and erudition, or a great learned one.
The structure of Russian- and south-eastern European muftiates were never prescribed by Islamic doctrine, but instead are based on the principle of an all-encompassing legal and administrative order in parallel fashion to Christian dioceses with the purpose of regulating the Islamic religion.
Usage Since the 15th century, the title has been a political one, granted by Popes to men who have led military campaigns defending Christianity.
Biblical sources The term does not occur in the Bible as a noun, though the verb lishloach ("to send") is frequently used to describe sending a messenger or agent.
The Ashkenazi, Sefardi, Chabad (Lubavitch), and Mizrahi Jews each have their own script for forming the letters, though the same rules apply throughout the text.
Description A rajarshi may be described as a king (raja) who adopts a path of devotion, thereby becoming a royal sage (rishi).
The term Saṃnyasa makes appearance in the Samhitas, Aranyakas, and Brahmanas, the earliest layers of Vedic literature (2nd millennium BCE), but it is rare.
Cypriot women, called Propoetides, were forced to act as prostitutes for Aphrodite, and these women acted as surrogates to Aphrodite in that through these sexual activities they were generating fertility for Cyprus.
See also Anagārika Dasa sil mata Donchee Maechi Siladhara Order Upāsaka and Upāsikā References == External links ==
Today, marabout means "saint" in the Berber languages and in general refers to Sufi Muslim teachers who head a lodge or school called a zāwiya associated with a specific school or tradition, called a ṭarīqah "way, path" (Arabic: طريقه).
Religious officiants, commonly referred to as celebrants, are usually ordained by a religious denomination as members of the clergy, and charged with conducting worship services and other religious ceremonies.
There is no formal ceremony for the clothing of a novice; he or she is simply given the riassa, belt and skoufos.
There are also specific youth-oriented programs, such as Coming of Age, and Our Whole Lives, a lifespan sexuality education program with a youth age group.
In the Anglican Church of Canada, the roles of senior cleric of the cathedral are combined in one person who is referred to as "Rector of Cathedral and Dean of Diocese".
Although there are some poskim in the Conservative movement (e.g., Louis Ginzberg, David Golinkin, Joel Roth, and Elliot Dorff), the rulings of any one individual rabbi are considered less authoritative than a consensus ruling.
Their hymns were sung in a Sumerian dialect known as eme-sal, normally used to render the speech of female gods, and some gala took feminine names and roles.
The Culavamsa refers to a bhāṇaka as late as the 13th century CE, but by this date the term may have become generic for a preacher or specialist in recitation, rather than a monk who preserved a significant portion of the canon by memory.
He attended a selection panel, but withdrew from the process because, he later wrote, he did not want a career which would have to be pursued in secret.
However, this did not formally ban chaplains from bearing arms; medical personnel were regularly allowed to maintain weapons to defend themselves, but could not use them for offensive action.
Although one does not need to be an ordained Rabbi to be a Rebbe, most Rebbes today are ordained Rabbis.
The latter are not necessarily shamans, and their function is merely to hold sacrifices (the word zhrets literally means "sacrificer", from Proto-Slavic *žьrti, and is cognate of Slavic words for "offering").
Placed Grinth [Braj form of 'Granth'] with manji, then Guru own-self sat nearby.31 Listened to [Asa-ki-]Var with focused mind, then at end revered Arjan spoke.
In the Eastern Orthodox, Eastern Lutheran and Eastern Catholic traditions of Christianity, a poustinik is a temporary hermit who has been called to pray and fast alone in a cabin for at least 24 hours.
Its use specifically for the pope appears in the 13th century in connection with the reforms of Pope Innocent III, as can be observed already in his 1199 letter to Leo I, King of Armenia.
Tibetan Buddhism contains two systems of ordination, the familiar monastic ordinations and the less well known ngakpa or Tantric ordinations.
There were also various subtypes of babaylan specializing in the arts of healing and herbalism, divination, and sorcery.
The Grand Imam of al-Azhar is considered, by most Muslims, to be the highest authority in Sunni Islamic thought and Islamic jurisprudence and holds great influence on followers of the theological Ash'ari and Maturidi traditions worldwide.
Following its destruction, it seems that most of them joined the Synagogal Jewish movement before adopting gradually Rabbinic Judaism, other types of Judaism, Christianity or Islam.
However, in response to the growing number of Wiccan temples and churches, several denominations of the religion have begun to develop a core group of ordained priestesses and priests serving a larger laity.
The Pure Standards of the Chan Monastery states; "The tenzo functions as the one who makes offerings with reverence to the monks." Since ancient times this office has been held by realized monks or by senior disciples who have roused the enlightened.
In Russia and in other parts of the former Soviet Union, a muhtasibat is directly subordinate to a qadiyat.
Another example of Rajarshi is King Janaka, who is said to have attained self-Knowledge from the ascetic sage Astavakra.
In most cases the members are self-supporting and live alone, but follow the same Rule of life, and meet together frequently in assemblies often known as 'Chapter meetings'.
According to the evangelicals, freedom of religion and freedom of expression allow them to discuss their faith like they would discuss other topics.
All instruction was communicated orally, but for ordinary purposes, Caesar reports, the Gauls had a written language in which they used Greek letters.
Scribes reviewed queries directed to Ottoman muftis and rewrote them to facilitate the issuing of fatwas.
Except for presiding and delegating administrative tasks, they have no authority over the cardinals, acting as primus inter pares (first among equals).
He wrote that every woman, who were titled “horae,” must go to Aphrodite’s temple and have intercourse with a stranger at least once and then receive money from the stranger as a sacred act.
Many secular celebrants conduct the whole range of ceremonies which mark the milestones of human life.
Swedish priests supported conviction of noaidis for sorcery, and in 1693, Lars Nilsson was executed for this charge.
'a man of prayer'; and from the Anglo-Saxon bed), was generally a pensioner or almsman whose duty was to pray for his benefactor.
This is a huge amount of material to have mastery over and will take years of dedicated study to achieve.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
A darshan (Hebrew: דַּרְשָׁן) or baal darshan (Hebrew: בַּעַל־דַּרְשָׁן) is a Jewish scriptural interpreter.
A lay leader is a member of the laity in any congregation who has been chosen as a leader either by their peers or the leadership of the congregation.
The root of the word "Maddah" is "Madh" which means expressing the excellent traits of a character or a thing.
England In consequence of its use in this general sense of pensioner, "bedesman" was long used in English as equivalent to "servant." The word had a special sense as the name for those almsmen attached to cathedrals and other churches, whose duty it was to pray for the souls of deceased benefactors.
Catholicism Hinduism Islam Judaism Neopaganism Raëlism Scientology Serer Zoroastrianism See also List of religious topics List of education topics == References ==
Their lives were oriented not to the ancient monastic way of life, but more to social service and to evangelization, both in Europe and in mission areas.
In gamer culture, a newbie is an inexperienced player with a low level, rank, or in-game abilities but wants to participate and improve, and a noob is a bad player who seems disinterested in learning or teamwork and trolls other players.
This is the case judged concerning which you both inquire." (Quran 12:35–41) Location Doing daʿwah in the right location.
"Locating Transcendence in Japanese Minzoku Geinô: Yamabushi and Miko Kagura," Ethnologies 25.1:191–208.
Tsangpa Gyare was recognized as the Bodhisattva of Great Compassion Avalokiteśvara in human form, as well as an incarnation of the first Buddhist King of Tibet, Songtsän Gampo, of the great saint Naropa and of Milarepa's sun-like disciple Gampopa.
In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the novitiate is officially set at three years before one may be tonsured a monk or nun, though this requirement may be waived.
Kshatriyakulavatans Chhatrapati Maharaj Maharani Peshwa PratapRao Appa Sardar Deshmukh Patil Rao Sikh honorific Sardar Sardarni Giani Nepali (Gorkhali) honorifics Associated with the Khas Kings of Nepal, esp.
Although the title Mahdi was not applied to him, his career as the anti-caliph significantly influenced the future development of the concept.
Hayyim Joseph David Azulai (1724–1806): the Levant and Europe (including Egypt, Amsterdam, England, and Livorno, for 56 years.
The Gala (Sumerian: 𒍑𒆪, romanized: gala, Akkadian: kalû) were priests of the Sumerian goddess Inanna.
Irvingism New Apostolic Church The New Apostolic Church (NAC) teaches three classes of ministries: deacons, priests and apostles.
Ben Sheshet explained that such a kohen is not entitled to the kohen's extra honor, even if his priestly lineage was verified, and "all the more so today's kohen who possess no lineage document".
As a result, there have always been greater or lesser disputes about the legitimacy and authority of rabbis.
A person under the age of 20 cannot be ordained as a bhikkhu or bhikkhuni but can be ordained as a śrāmaṇera or śrāmaṇērī.
This word describes someone engaged in advanced study of the traditional Islamic sciences (`ulum) at an Islamic university or madrasah jami`ah.
An achar (Khmer: អាចារ្យ, achary [ʔaːcaː]) or achar wat (Khmer: អាចារ្យវត្ត, achary vôtt [ʔaːcaː ʋŏət]) is a lay Buddhist upāsaka who becomes a ritual specialist and takes on the role of master of ceremonies in various religious rites in Cambodia.
The infallibility promised to the Church resides also in the body of Bishops, when that body exercises the supreme magisterium with the successor of Peter.
Daʿwah (Arabic: دعوة, Arabic: [ˈdaʕwah], "invitation", also spelt dâvah, daawa, dawah, daawah or dakwah) is the act of proselytizing people to Islam.
Budin regards the concept of sacred prostitution as a myth, arguing taxatively that the practices described in the sources were misunderstandings of either non-remunerated ritual sex or non-sexual religious ceremonies, possibly even mere cultural slander.
UK Chaplains are drawn from a range of faith and belief backgrounds, and are not necessarily ordained or a recognised faith leader.
Amarakosha (the famous Sanskrit synonym lexicon compiled by Amarasimha) mentions seven types of riṣis : Shrutarshi, Kāndarshi, Paramarshi, Maharshi, Rājarshi, Brahmarshi and Devarshi.
In other words, only a hieromonk who has been tonsured into the Great Schema may himself tonsure a Schemamonk.
Kappiya may also assist in other capacities, including carrying alms bowls during morning alms collection, and preparing food for monks.
Temple prostitution The Temple of Aphrodite at Acrocorinth is above all famous for the unverified claims of the temple prostitution of courtesans, which were alleged to be dedicated to the service of the temple, and contributed to the attraction of visitors to the city of Corinth.
Bya rog prog zhu, The raven crest: the life and teachings of bDe chen 'od gsal rdo rje treasure revealer of contemporary Tibet (PhD).
They made up a significant number of the personnel of both temples and palaces, the central institutions of Mesopotamian city-states.
Additionally, the Government does not grant special tax preferences to religious organizations operating print or broadcast media.
Bad purposes) written in The Objective, calling Lalachus "Bitelchús", and saying in relation to the controversy "Out with everything that Bitelchús stands for and especially Jordi Évole!".
Omar Tall's state forbade dancing, the use of tobacco, alcohol, charms, pagan ceremonies, and the worship of idols.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion.
The Coalition is particularly active in challenging what it perceives as discrimination against nontheists by government chartered organizations like the Boy Scouts of America.
The British courts ruled in favour of British Airways and against Eweida under the Human Rights Act 1998, an Act of the British Parliament which implements the European Convention in British law.
ISKCON considered it did not breach planning control and was being deprived of its rights under the 1983 agreement by the notice.
Individuals have also the freedom to profess non-theistic and atheistic beliefs as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief.
History Religious uniformity was common in many modern theocratic and atheistic governments around the world until fairly modern times.
Abuses of religious freedom On April 29, 2007, government authorities reportedly deported Pastor Mazhar Izzat Bishay of the Aqaba Free Evangelical Church, an Egyptian national and long-time resident, to Egypt.
Kazakhstan Kazakhstan's constitution notes that the country as a secular state and provides for freedom of religion and belief.
An Edict of Toleration was decreed by King Kamehameha III of Hawaii on June 17, 1839, which allowed for the establishment of the Hawaii Catholic Church.
The Marrakesh Declaration is a statement made in January 2016 by "more than 250 Muslim religious leaders, heads of state, and scholars", which champions "defending the rights of religious minorities in predominantly Muslim countries".
The appropriation of religious symbols and buildings for political purposes in combination with restrictions on religious services and ceremonies had a negative impact on inter-religious dialogue and inter-ethnic relations in many communities.
At the Union of Dordrecht, on 4 July 1575, William of Orange was appointed stadholder of Holland and Holland and Zeeland decided to cooperate.
In August 2019, after the church had been destroyed, persecution of citizens continued with eight people in charge of the church and 13 churchgoers arrested.
The Edict of Serdica, also called Edict of Toleration by Galerius, was issued in 311 in Serdica (now Sofia, Bulgaria) by Roman Emperor Galerius.
Policy Accommodationism advocates providing aid to parochial schools, school vouchers that provide tax credit for private/parochial schools, as well as nonsectarian school prayer, as long as these policies apply equally to all religious institutions and individuals.
Like the Federation, both soon advocated for a liberal, open reading of the law, against the hardliners led by Clemenceau.
When Councilman Martinez, a supporter of the ordinances, stated that in pre-revolution Cuba "people were put in jail for practicing this religion", the audience applauded.
It was alleged that Scot claimed that Muslims were terrorists who wanted to take over Australia, and that those who didn't weren't true Muslims.
Weatherhead, published by the Board of Practice and Procedure of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1997), ISBN 0-86153-246-5.
Proselytizing by non-Muslims, including the distribution of non-Muslim religious materials such as Bibles, is illegal.
Each justice in the majority contrasted Section 116 with its equivalent in the US Constitution to find that Section 116 is narrower.
If individuals violate the law, the Government may ask their employers to terminate their employment.
Judgment The Court held that the length of the proceedings was excessive and failed to meet the "reasonable time" requirement.
The Fédération nationale de la libre pensée (English: National Federation for Free Thought) is a French not-for-profit federation of local associations concerned with freethought, anti-clericalism, freedom of conscience, and civil rights,.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
In 2020, the population of Benin was 52.2% Christian, 24.6% Muslim, 17.9% Animist and 5.3% following other faiths or none.
There is no official legal punishment under Syrian law for apostasy of Islam, or any other religion.
Scrutiny from Catholic officials occurred in places like Bohemia, where the officials attempted to preserve religious unity.
On 9 March, the Prosecutor-General (Riksåklagaren) appealed this decision to the Supreme Court, which on 29 November also acquitted.
The Rationalist Union hosts two radio shows, one on the radio of the French Anarchist Federation, and another on the public radio France Culture, and publishes two journals, Les Cahiers Rationalistes, and Raison Présente.
This follows laws which give the death penalty for adultery and homosexual activity, although these penalties have not been used since the 1980s.
The office refused to register the Association of Jehovah's Witnesses in Poland and ordered the seizure of its assets by the state.
On 17 December 2004, the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) ruled that Nalliah, Scot and the Christian group Catch the Fire Ministries had vilified Muslims at the seminar, and in a newsletter and website article authored by the group.
Court of first instance According to the lower court in 2005, the administrator was guilty of "incitement against a group of people" for statements he himself had written, and for crime against "the law on electronic bulletin boards", for guest-messages which he neglected to delete.
Although changes to the timetable were approved by most other workers in the plant, in consultation Mr Copsey was not happy, and he raised objection with four others.
Public schools may choose to offer religious instruction, but there is no national framework for such classes.
Muslims reside largely around the northern, eastern, and western borders, while Christians live in the center of the country.
Background Freedom of Worship is the second of a series of four oil paintings by Norman Rockwell entitled Four Freedoms.
However, these declarations were generally considered "mere admonitions to state legislatures", rather than enforceable provisions.
She held that the prosecution violated her right to freedom of expression under Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as her rights to freedom of religion under Article 9.
Epega (president of the Non-Governmental Organization Respeito Brasil Yourubá), Baptist priest Djalma Rosa Torres, Vaishnava Hindu priest Jagannatha Dhama Dasa and Milton R.
A student contacted the Center for Inquiry in Amherst, New York, to present the idea, which CFI then supported.
History IPPFoRB was established on 8 November 2014 with the signing of the Oslo Charter for Freedom of Religion or Belief at the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo.
The term "Peace of the Church" has sometimes been applied in Great Britain and Ireland to the ending of persecution that followed Catholic emancipation between 1778 and 1926.
Controversies Criticism The phrase "God be praised" creates arguments because, according to some, it would be contrary to the secular state, which does not privilege any religion, although there is no consensus on the part of the religious communities, especially the Christian ones.
According to RAD statistics and local Hindu organizations, there are an estimated 95,000 Hindus in the country.
Facts In 1973, the Church of Scientology of Sweden placed an advertisement for an E-meter in its periodical.
Ran Hirschl believes the conflict is "a contest for cultural hegemony between a secularist-libertarian elite and traditionally peripheral group," namely the ultra-Orthodox community.
Societal attitudes Some Christian, Baháʼí, and Shia Muslims report societal, familial, and cultural pressure on account of their faith.
Catholics rejected the apparent recognition of Protestantism as a permanent element in French society and still hoped to enforce religious uniformity.
These changes were reflected in June and July 1858, when the House of Lords and House of Commons respectively passed resolutions making loyal addresses to Queen Victoria to remove certain "occasional forms of prayer" from the 1662 Book of Common Prayer.
The No Religious Test Clause of Article VI of the Constitution expressly stated that "no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States".
The Open Doors report covering 2021 estimates the Christian population at 30,000 (approximately 3.5 percent).
On 4 October, a sentence was pronounced: fourteen were to be tortured and burned alive; five to be flogged and banished; ten, all women, were set free while the remainder were to undergo graded forms of penance.
Moreover, the same rule reads, if he becomes Muslim his change in faith, it is written down in their marriage contract.
However, the Commission does not consider that such an issue arises on the facts of the present case.
According to the World Jewish Congress, there were approximately 400 to 500 Jews in the country in 2022.
He celebrated the Eucharist clandestinely and ministered the other sacraments to small groups of Catholics.
Of course, during that time, the religious and non-religious nature of Shinto shrines was debated not as a legal issue but purely as a matter of religious studies.
The defense of a doctrine is not the magistrate's business (what does the sword have to do with doctrine?).
However, in April 2018, Parliament passed a new law that strengthens the existing death penalty punishment for certain blasphemy offenses.
In addition, religious materials for use at Christmas and Easter are readily available in local shops.
The reign of Charles I (1625–49) saw a small revival of Catholicism in England, especially among the upper classes.
It seems clear to me that this statement was directed not to Ms Ladele's belief with regard to civil partnerships, but to the manifestation of that belief, namely her refusal to conduct such partnership duties...
The neo-Nazi Socialist Reich Party had been banned due to the same government petition back in 1952, but the Communist Party's lengthy defense in part had caused a delay.
In February 1998, MILS, headed by Alain Vivien, released its annual report on their monitoring of cults in France.
Based on practices common in English towns, these were generally more liberal than the ones granted to New Netherland's Dutch communities and the charter granted to the applicants from Flushing was no exception.
The Special Provisions were a series of articles introduced in the Federal Constitution of the Swiss Confederation.
Independence (1956–present) Mohammed V (1956–1961) Mohammed V would become the first king of independent Morocco following negotiations with France, establishing the country as a constitutional monarchy.
As a signatory of the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne, Turkey recognizes the civil, political and cultural rights of non-Muslim minorities.
Both men were remanded to prison where they survived in isolation on rations of bread and water for over a month.
Baháʼí cemeteries, holy places, historical sites, administrative centers, and other assets were seized shortly after the 1979 revolution.
Permission to appeal to the Grand Chamber of the Court was refused, thus the judgment of the Chamber became final on 27 May 2013.
Throughout the country, there were 391 registered places of worship, including 217 Buddhist, 143 Christian, 5 Baháʼí, 24 Muslim, and 2 shamanistic.
In 1989, the Eastern Catholic church resurfaced in Ukraine, with hundreds of parishes across the republic renouncing their affiliation with the Russian Orthodox Church.
The Romans looked for common ground between their major gods and those of the Greeks, adapting Greek myths and iconography for Latin literature and Roman art.
Actions and reactions The movement suggests sympathizers act by leaving support messages on their website and filing legal complaints at the State and Federal attorney's Office.
In addition, 23 percent identified as “other” or did not declare a religion, 3.5 percent declared themselves “unaffiliated,” and 10.1 percent selected no religion.
According to the German weekly Die Zeit, Beijing police use around 4,500 officers to provide surveillance of Zhongguancun Square and of the homes of about 500 church members, to prevent the church from congregating.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Turkish Cypriot daily newspaper Afrika, in a front page article, criticised those who claim that there is freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus when the religious books were confiscated.
While missionary groups exist in Somalia, they face significant legal and societal barriers to their activities, and often have difficulty carrying out humanitarian aid missions.
Schweizer feels that it actually has just the opposite meaning and is instead showing that the promises in Jeremiah 31:34 and Isaiah 54:13 that all would someday be equal to the prophets had come to pass.
Federal Governments have twice proposed the amendment of Section 116, principally to apply its provisions to laws made by the states.
Meaux was eventually seen as the centre from which Calvin-inspired Protestantism could spread over all of France according to Jean Crespin, a historian of Protestant martyrs.
Later in the 15th and 16th centuries European Missionaries brought in Christianity in places such as Goa and Mangalore.
The 2001 About–Picard law [abu pika:r], officially the loi n° 2001-504 du 12 juin 2001 tendant à renforcer la prévention et la répression des mouvements sectaires portant atteinte aux droits de l'homme et aux libertés fondamentales, is French legislation passed by the National Assembly in 2000.
that every principle of the moral world is fixed and determinate, although the political world is abandoned to the debates and experiments of men." (Tocqueville 1945, 314- 15; emphasis added).
Chakraborty wrote to the Secretary, Department of Home Government of West Bengal, demanding the ban of the Quran.
Forced religious conversion There were reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The phrase "separation of church and state" does not appear in the United States Constitution, despite its wide use and origin from a founding father.
In the early 2000s, a separate government agency, the General Directorate for Foundations (GDF), regulated activities of non-Muslim religious groups and their affiliated churches, monasteries, synagogues and related religious property.
Some observers stated they believed prosecutors intentionally filed lesser charges in these cases to minimize the appearance of religious intolerance.
According to the school, as the girls had not yet reached puberty they did not qualify for an exemption from swimming lessons under Swiss law.
The Universal Code of Conduct on Holy Sites is an open standard for religious heritage and sacred natural sites safeguard developed by the Search for Common Ground and the Oslo Center for Peace and Human Rights.
On September 22, 2006, in reaction to the controversy surrounding Pope Benedict XVI's comments on Islam, the Catholic Church and the Muslim Community organized a "Day of Dialogue" in contrast to the "Day of Wrath" proclaimed on Al Jazeera for the same day.
He is believed to have been born at St-Nicolas, a commune in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department, 75 km south of Metz.
In the last decade, a number of religious groups considered foreign or "nontraditional" by the Azeri regime have established a presence, including "Wahhabi" and Salafist Muslims, Pentecostal and evangelical Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses, Hare Krishnas and Iran-backed Khomeinist groups.
At the beginning of 2023, the return of the Pochaiv Assumption Lavra to the state began due to the fact that its lease agreement with the Russian Orthodox Church had expired.
The only national holidays observed in Saudi Arabia are the two Eids, Eid Al-Fitr at the end of Ramadan and Eid Al-Adha at the conclusion of the Hajj and the Saudi national day.
Freedom of religion in Brazil is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.
While individual places of worship may register with local authorities, many choose not to do so and operate as the personal property of their leaders.
The national curriculum requires special classes on Christian studies from first grade, other religions are also mentioned.
Forced religious conversion There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The relevance of this reply is a subject of heated debate, with scholars such as Robert Boston emphasizing its importance, and others such as Mark David Hall arguing that the letter was a historical outlier.
Atheists In July 2017, an activist group that spread atheistic articles and books Iranian universities, published a video on YouTube titled "Why we must deny the existence of God", featuring famous atheist thinkers Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Christopher Hitchens and Daniel Dennett.
Pardiwala gave the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta more time to file an affidavit, as it clubbed together petitions filed by several people including former BJP MP Subramanian Swamy and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, who had filed his plea on March 12, 2021.
In France, during a protest march against the imposition of restrictions on the wearing of headscarves in state-run schools, a banner labeled the ban as "secular fundamentalism".
State requirements for political office were not entirely abolished until 1961, when the Supreme Court of the United States rejected a provision of the Maryland State Constitution requiring all public officeholders to declare a belief in God in the case of Torcaso v.
Baha’i, Zoroastrian and Kaka’i groups are not allowed to register with the government, although they are recognized in Kurdish areas; Baha'ism is illegal.
In his description of the events in Milan in his Life of Constantine, Eusebius eliminated the role of Licinius, whom he portrayed as the evil foil to his hero Constantine.
There is a searchable archive of reports, including religious freedom surveys of countries and regions, and personal commentaries on religious freedom issues.
The Spanish were unable to cope with multiple uprisings since their limited military was overextended.
However, there are some who only support a revival of the religion's status merely as an element of national revival.
Bartholomew's Day Massacre, which prompted the Polish-Lithuanian nobility to ensure that no monarch would ever be able to carry out such an act in Poland.
Human Rights Watch says that they have been used to indoctrinate Uyghurs and other Muslims since 2017 as part of a "Strike Hard Campaign Against Violent Terrorism", a policy announced in 2014 after the May 2014 Ürümqi attack.
See also Hate speech Lists of pejorative terms for people List of ethnic slurs Notes References Richard A.
It put emphasis on the fact that in the opinion of the court the school had shown flexibility by offering to allow the girls to swim in burkinis and to change their clothes in a room with no boys present.
Chapter 2, Article 106 of the Constitution further notes that the President of the Republic must "practice his Islamic duties." Public schools provide instruction in Islam but not in other religions; however, Muslim citizens can attend private schools that do not teach Islam.
Copsey v WWB Devon Clays Ltd [2005] EWCA Civ 932; [2005] IRLR 811 is a UK employment discrimination law case, concerning the right to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
In an article of his authorship published in the Jornal do Brasil newspaper, law professor Ives Gandra Martins cited the words "under God's protection", from the Brazilian Constitution's introduction, as possible justification for the argument that the movement's aim is unconstitutional.
The notice was confirmed after ISKCON's appeal by the Secretary of State in 1990 and by the courts in 1991 and 1992.
Action against the use of public funds for Christmas decorations The Federation has brought legal actions under the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State against the use of public funds on religious symbols, notably public installations of nativity scenes.
Members of the group were urged to rebuke individuals identifying as Catholics and see the religion as a foreign religion that belonged to their enemies.
The 1905 law dissolved these establishments and transferred church buildings to religious associations.
English people would have found elements of Prussianism in his theory; anti-Semites would have regarded it as a Zionist plot; nationalists in all countries would have found it tainted with lily-livered pacifism, and proclaimed it a mere dodge for escaping military service.
Religious group registration The law does not require religious groups to register, but it treats unregistered religious organizations as informal groups that do not receive any of the legal benefits registered religious groups receive.
Special Adjudicator For the European Convention on Human Rights Archived 19 April 2006 at the Wayback Machine
The verdict declared the convert to be a ward of the state, stripped him of his civil rights, and annulled his marriage.
I am sure she will be sadly missed in her work.” Following the end of World War II in Yugoslavia and establishment of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a nominally secular state under influence of state atheism, religions became discouraged.
During the reporting period there were no indications the Turkmenistan government planned to rescind or modify previous policies regarding religious freedom.
nonprofit advocacy group that works to mitigate belief in pseudoscience and the paranormal and to fight the influence of religion in government.
Background The German federal government had petitioned for the Communist Party to be banned in 1952 on the basis that the party's revolutionary practice means "the impairment or the abolition of the fundamental liberal democratic order in the Federal Republic".
Lorek, Sklarzewicz, and Chodara were sentenced to 12 years, Cyrański to eight years, and Nabiałczyk to six years.
the Federal Republic of Germany was a 1957 European Commission of Human Rights decision which upheld the dissolution of the Communist Party of Germany by the Federal Constitutional Court a year earlier.
External links Judgment of the Fourth Section of ECHR, 2004 Full text of the European Convention on Human Rights Archived 2015-09-25 at the Wayback Machine Grand Chamber judgment, 2005
She claimed this violated her right to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
After a series of emissaries to Tall were rebuffed, and one prominent griot even converted to Islam, Yambi pre-emptively attacked the community but was defeated in September 1852.
In the referendum of May 20, 1973, the federal decree on the repeal of the Jesuit and monastery articles of the Federal Constitution was adopted, thereby removing these articles from the constitution.
Charlemagne was once again elsewhere, so the Saxons went to battle with the part of the Frankish army that had been left behind and the "Franks were killed almost to a man".
Persecution intensified in the context of the general 2011 crackdown on dissidents, following an announcement by church leaders that they would begin holding Sunday service meetings in public, if they were not allowed to acquire premises.
Therefore, if Servetus had wanted to kill Calvin, it would have been right for the magistrate to defend Calvin.
One could not, for example, immigrate to the US without swearing they are not an anarchist or polygamous, and once inside must not be communist.
Some mainstream Muslim leaders occasionally express, through sermons and press articles, their opinion that minority religious groups undermine national unity.
It draws its mandate from the South African Constitution by way of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities Act of 2002.
Felix Gutierrez and Amalia Gonzalez have the honor to invite you to the civil and socialist matrimonial act, to take place at 21 o' clock the 17th of this month at 305 Gomez Farias Street.
The freedom of religion report in 2007 by US Department of State also stated that "Turkish Cypriot authorities generally respected this right in practice" and the practice of religion was generally free.
If the priests of the state church were called upon to visit ill immigrants, they were not allowed to trouble their consciences with religious disputes and controversies.
In Ulaanbaatar, the registration of one Buddhist and three Christian religious organizations which own a temple and three churches, respectively, remained under consideration.
On 9 September 2025, Uyghur activists speaking at a side event during the United Nations Human Rights Council session in Geneva shared personal testimonies of family members detained in China's Xinjiang region, alleging long prison sentences handed down without due process.
Baháʼí group meetings and religious education, which often take place in private homes and offices, are curtailed severely.
Augustine: It may be asked, what difference there is between ‘they shall revile you’, and ‘shall speak all manner of evil of you;’ to revile, it may be said, being but to speak evil of.
In particular, Islamic personal law governs marriages and divorces of Muslims, while civil law applies to most property rights.
Population As of the 2012 census, 70.2% of Sri Lankans were Buddhists, 12.6% were Hindus, 9.7% were Muslims (mainly Sunni), 7.4% were Christians (mostly Catholics).
Judgment Elias J at the Employment Appeals Tribunal dismissed the case because McClintock's objection was essentially founded on a belief that children were being used as guinea pigs in a social experiment, rather than on his philosophical or religious beliefs.
The Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland – often known as the Declaratory Articles - were drawn up early in the 20th century to facilitate the union of the Church of Scotland and the United Free Church of Scotland.
Some commentators have been concerned about how closely this verse links good behaviour to eternal rewards, and that it implies that concern about these rewards is the main consideration in being moral.
It is thus generally not seen as a ninth Beatitude, but as a commentary on the eighth Beatitude directed to the disciples.
In February 2023, Justice For All, a Chicago-based human rights organization released a report titled 'The Nazification of India' which draws one on one parallels between Nazi Germany and India under the BJP-RSS regime.
Founding and leadership The origins of Khana Lueat Thai are somewhat contested, as no single charter or manifesto survives and the group operated semi-secretly.
The constitution states foreign nationals fearing persecution in their home countries on the grounds of religion have the right to request asylum.
Descendants of the signers, Bowne, Stuyvesant, and the arresting officer were invited and in attendance, and the original copy of the Remonstrance was brought down from the State Archives in Albany for several weeks' public display.
Those assisting priests in contravention of the May Laws were subject to fines, arrest and imprisonment, and 210 people were convicted under these laws in the first four months of 1875.
Maria viewed herself as a descendant of the Anusim, and (according to tradition) arrived in Michoacán with her mother and twelve children escaping a religious revolt (possibly the Cristero War), that was occurring during that period.
Generally, government agencies implement the ombudsman’s recommendations, although often with delays.
Laws proposed that those Christians who were fighting for the fundamentals of the faith should be called "fundamentalists".
Its mission is to "promote and protect the rights of cultural, religious and linguistic communities".
Under the Edict of Versailles, Roman Catholicism continued as the state religion of the Kingdom of France, but relief was offered to non-Catholic worshippers: Calvinist Huguenots, Lutherans and Jews alike.
United States (1970) was a case heard by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit challenging the inclusion of "In God We Trust" on U.S.
Passage The bill was criticised by Charles James Blomfield, the Bishop of London, for allegedly establishing the supremacy of the Pope in the United Kingdom.
Government ministers such as Mehmet Aydın, Minister of State in charge of religious affairs, called missionaries "separatist and destructive".
It upholds the view that special allowances do not need to be made by employers for people who want to follow particular religious practices, because people are free to choose their jobs.
They have also expressed concern that the government has not prosecuted people accused of assaulting their members.
Chakraborty thereafter met Chandmal Chopra, who also wrote to the Department of Home Government of West Bengal on March 16, 1985.
According to the CIA World Factbook, 76% of the residents are Muslim, 9% are Christian, other (primarily Hindu and Buddhist, less than 5% of the population consists of Parsi, Baha'i, Druze, Sikh, Ahmadi, Ismaili, Dawoodi Bohra Muslim, and Jewish) 15%.
Joseph II's enlightened despotism included the Patent of Toleration, enacted in 1781, and the Edict of Tolerance in 1782.
Personal characteristics includes religious beliefs or activities in anti-discrimination legislation for the majority of states, and as such these laws may be seen to support religious freedom by prohibiting unfair treatment using religion as a basis.
However, Catholic integralism as a more consciously articulated doctrine came about as a reaction against the political and cultural changes that followed the Enlightenment and the French Revolution.
Deicide Deicide as the prime accusation against the Jews appears, for the first time, in a highly rhetorical second-century poem by Melito of Sardis, of which only a few fragments have survived.
This edict is published at Nicomedia on the day before the Kalends of May, in our eighth consulship and the second of Maximinus.
Existing tensions between Jews and non-Jews remained high during the reporting period, and continuing violence heightened those tensions.
This was subsequent to their appointment by president Jacob Zuma in terms of section 11(4) read with 13(1) of the CRL Rights Commission Act 19 of 2002 with effect from 1 March 2014, for a period of five years.
Religious groups are required to register with the government in order to proselytize, build houses of worship, hold religious services, or officiate marriages.
During the Supreme Court hearing on the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, assured the court that no waqf property would be denotified and no appointments would be made to the Central Waqf Council or State Waqf Boards until 5 May.
Rosen This is a continuation of a public debate that dates back to the founding or the Animal Protection Societies in the 1890s.
Chandrachud, accepted a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991.
In May 2006, the MOI invited some 100 leaders from religious organizations to participate in a two-day tour of outstanding social services organizations operated by religious charities, to foster cooperation among organizations with similar social welfare goals.
Account of John Bowne John Bowne's account of the Flushing Remonstrance and its aftermath is found in his journal of events.
Legislative history The political and religious aspects of Anglican identity began to separate after Catholic emancipation culminated in the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829.
While previous law did not restrict the right to convert or proselytize, proselytism was prohibited based on a Royal Government decision.
Verbal attacks meant that the Christians were ostracized from their communities, and in that era community support was essential to survival.
He then said that the change, to make him work Sundays breached his fundamental human right to freedom of religion, as a Christian.
If the parents are not married when the child is born, the baby is registered with the same affiliation as the parent who has custody of the child.
Kamehameha III issued the edict under the threat of force by the French government, as the French were seeking to protect the work of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary.
On November 13, 2006, a number of Romanian non-governmental organisations sent a letter to the CNCD backing Moise's complaint.
The edict prescribed: Destroying churches and burning their Holy Scriptures Confiscation of church property Banning Christians from undertaking collective legal action Loss of privileges for Christians of high rank who refused to recant Arresting some state officials.
The legal protections found under fundamental justice could be defined as including other rights under the Charter, and in particular abortion laws breached freedom of conscience.
The concept proposes that the probability of being shot by the police depends on ethnicity in addition to the other known factors like location, the income of the neighborhood and whether or not the person is carrying a weapon as well as the emotions shown by the victim.
IGN gave the series a positive review, stating that it was more authentic to the franchise than either of the larger budgeted Street Fighter feature films, as well as one of the best live-action video-game adaptations overall, rating it an 8.7/10.
Párraga was shot in the head and body, by a hitman who entered the restaurant and fled with an associate afterwards.
Donat's, and from old papers he had collected wrote one of the first histories of Glamorgan, The Winning of the Lordship of Glamorgan out of Welshmens' Hands, thereby creating the legend of the Twelve Knights of Glamorgan, followers of Robert FitzHamon, Norman conqueror of Glamorgan.
Austria In December 2020, the Austrian Constitutional Court ruled that the prohibition of assisted suicide was unconstitutional.
Manhunt On February 22, Ribeiro was killed in a confrontation with the Military Police in a wooded area near the Presidente João Figueiredo Airport, 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) from Sinop.
His father Peter Vogel was a well known German actor, whose career included a role in the 1978 US TV Miniseries Holocaust.
On 13 July, a night march was summoned in honor of those killed during the protests, including Castillo, marching to the places where the demonstrators died.
Pius student, opened fire on his classmates with a shotgun, killing a 17-year-old classmate named Mark Hough and wounding five others before killing himself with a shotgun blast to the head.
He captured the Byzantine general Manuel Kamytzes, who was sent against him; Kamytzes was ransomed by his son-in-law, Ivanko's rival, Dobromir Chrysos.
Most of the states that have perpetrated genocide and their citizens deny or ignore it, reject responsibility for the harms suffered by victims, and want to draw a line under the past.
Chand was subsequently charged with Marceau's murder, but on 17 October 2012 was acquitted of her murder by reason of insanity.
His first marriage was to singer-dancer Dolores Elizabeth Milligan Cooke, who took the stage name "Dee Dee Mohawk" in 1953; they divorced in 1958.
The third line, a further ten yards from the second police line, consisted of a Philippine Marine Corps unit, the Marine Civil Disturbance Control Battalion.
The series started a Kickstarter crowdsource funding campaign in order to source funds for production.
One of the bullets struck her, and she was transferred in critical condition to Imam Khomeini Hospital in Nur.
The fact that she had concealed her pregnancy and given birth alone were considered evidence of her guilt.
The Infanticide Act (Swedish: Barnamordsplakatet), often referred to as "Infanticide act of Gustav III" (Gustav III:s barnamordsplakat) after its instigator Gustav III of Sweden, was a historical Swedish law, which was introduced in 1778 and in effect until 1917, with alterations in 1856.
However, Spinei himself responded to the suggestion of a Turkic origin of the individual based on the Turkic etymology of his name by saying that a name's etymology does not always reflect its bearer's ethnicity.
On February 14, 2025, the remains of 14-year old Emily Pike were found off Highway 60 in the state of Arizona.
On the day following the shooting, the National Cabinet, which consists of the leaders of Australia's state and territory governments and the prime minister, unanimously agreed to strengthen gun laws.
Superintendent Press was also praised for acting "in utter disregard for his own life" by planting the explosive that flushed out William Unek.
Seton was buried next to his father at St Mary's Church, Fordingbridge on the 10 June, after a funeral procession from Southsea to Fordingbridge.
The Popol Vuh describes the history of the Kʼicheʼ people and their rulers and mentions the important position of the Maya ballgame.
United Kingdom England and Wales In English criminal law, attempted murder is the crime of simultaneously preparing to commit an unlawful killing and having a specific intention to cause the death of a human being under the King's Peace.
A composite sketch of the woman, presented on Aktenzeichen XY… ungelöst, finally led her mother to positively identifying her in November 1994.
In this way, the question of killing baby Hitler resembles the trolley problem, which utilitarianism responds to similarly.
Contents It presents selections of contrasting points of view on four central questions about euthanasia: whether it is ethical; whether it should be legalized; whether legalizing it would lead to involuntary killing; and whether physicians should assist in suicide.
Bethlem Gabor, Lord of Transylvania Female patriotism, or The death of Joan d'Arc About Burk Joseph Tinker Buckingham.
However, in both cases there are doubts whether the lot drawing was fair (and whether it even happened), since the lot fell, conveniently from the viewpoint of the core crew, on an "obvious victim".
There is a debate within the medical and bioethics literature about whether or not the non-voluntary (and by extension, involuntary) killing of patients can be regarded as euthanasia, irrespective of intent or the patient's circumstances.
Some, on the other hand, are serial killers who utilize this modus operandi either exclusively or when it suits them.
Piquett said Dillinger would have to pay $5,000 for the plastic surgery: $4,400 split between Piquett, Loeser and O'Leary, and $600 to Dr.
Mass shootings have been documented using a variety of methods, including body cameras and closed-circuit television cameras (CCTV).
Other killings, such as the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, are generally disqualified as "regicides", because this crown prince had not yet taken the throne.
In the Netherlands and Belgium, euthanasia is understood as "termination of life by a doctor at the request of a patient".
After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, tyrannicide continued in the Eastern Roman Empire when Emperor Andronikos I Komnenos was tied to a pillar, beaten, and dismembered by a mob in 1185.
In October 2000, he was commemorated by a group of Macedonians as a martyr for the Macedonian cause.
Mazurok then apparently went on the run for over a month, before his body was found in the woods near Kyiv's Dorohozhychi metro station.
He defined totalitarianism as follows: There is much confusion about what is meant by totalitarian in the literature, including the denial that such systems even exist.
This may be due to the fact that male civilians are often targeted during warfare as a way to remove those considered to be potential combatants, and during genocide as a way to destroy the entire community.
Though not specified in the texts, it seems likely that the real king also did not wear any outward signifiers of kingship nor occupy the throne during the reign of the substitute.
The Prebilovci massacre (Serbian: Масакр у Пребиловцима) was an atrocity and war crime perpetrated by the Croatian Ustaše in the Independent State of Croatia during the World War II genocide of Serbs.
Though not confirmed, it has been suspected that similar occurrences happen in the wild due to tourists.
Charles Amadeus served in the Army of Flanders in 1645, and in the following year commanded the light cavalry at the siege of Kortrijk.
Origin RentAHitman.com was bought and registered by Bob Innes of Northern California on February 5, 2005, for US$9.20.
We know that Callimachus, as well as his contemporary Euphorion, told the story of the dismembered child, and Byzantine sources quote Callimachus as referring to the birth of a "Dionysos Zagreus", explaining that "Zagreus" was the poet's name for a chthonic Dionysus, the son of Zeus by Persephone.
In fear of infanticide, female jaguars will not tolerate the presence of any male, even the father of the litter, once she gives birth to her cubs.
1 Kings 16:31 relates that his daughter Jezebel married Ahab (874 – 853 BC), and Phoenician influence in Samaria and the other Israelite cities was extensive.
Abdul Khaliq Hazara (Dari/Hazaragi: عبدالخالق هزاره; 1916 — December 18, 1933) was an Afghan Hazara high school student who assassinated the King of Afghanistan, Mohammad Nadir Shah, on 8 November 1933, during an award distribution ceremony.
As Rasmussen did not have any known victims during the five years between Beaudin's disappearance and Lisa's abandonment, her answer led police to believe that he may have had more unknown victims.
Italian poet Isabella di Morra was killed by her brothers around 1546 for a suspected affair with a married nobleman, whom they also murdered.
The investigators believe that Vornanen-Karaduman confused the concealed bodies with each other, so this child was more likely born in December 2010.
NATO definitions The military organisation NATO uses the following definitions: Casualty In relation to personnel, any person who is lost to his organization by reason of being declared dead, wounded, diseased, detained, captured or missing.
This covers, in particular, claims that the victim has transgressed cultural, religious, social, or traditional norms or customs of appropriate behavior.
Emma Mills, headteacher of Birchwood Community High School said: "We are shocked and truly devastated to hear of the death of Brianna." A parent of one of Ghey's friends, speaking with the Daily Mail, alleged that the killing was a hate crime.
Three additional suspects, Abdessamad Ejjoud, Rachid Afatti, and Younes Ouaziad, were later apprehended by the police while riding a bus during the morning rush hour in the nearby city of Marrakesh.
Any advance refusal is legally binding providing that the patient is an adult, the patient was competent and properly informed when reaching the decision, it is clearly applicable to the present circumstances and there is no reason to believe that the patient has changed their mind.
Cadeguala or Cadiguala was a Mapuche toqui elected in 1585 following the death in battle of the previous toqui Nangoniel.
In 1979, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago found that the government had withheld relevant documents, thereby obstructing the judicial process.
If a gun is used, the minimum sentence is four, five or seven years, dependent on prior convictions and relation to organized crime.
Shepherds Find Zenobia on the Banks of the Araxes by Paul Baudry (1850) "Shepherds Find Zenobia on the Banks of the Araxes" by William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1850) "Radamisto in atto di spingere Zenobia ferita nel fiume Arasse" by Francesco Alberi.
Lemkin brought his proposal to criminalize genocide to the newly established United Nations in 1946.
Victims The BBC mentions 73 victims, and the “Tigray: Atlas of the humanitarian situation” approximately 50 victims; 54 victims have been identified.
Euthanasia: Opposing Viewpoints is a book in the Opposing Viewpoints series, published by Greenhaven Press.
It was not uncommon that parents threw a child to the sharks in the Ganges River as a sacrificial offering.
Spanish Courts Corchado y Juarbe was a supporter of the Spanish Revolución of 1868, believing that the Spanish colonies will enjoy more liberties with the establishment of the new regime.
"Dostoevsky and Parricide" (German: Dostojewski und die Vatertötung) is an introductory article contributed by Sigmund Freud to a scholarly collection on the 1880 novel The Brothers Karamazov by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.
The witnesses were Albano José Correia, married, employed in commerce and Aquilino Ribeiro, single, publicist.
Mass Murder: A Small Person's Way to Immortality Mass shootings interactive map Online Encyclopedia of Mass Violence The real causes of mass murder by James Alan Fox.
The final report into the assassination of King Carlos and Prince Royal, which was ready for judicial investigation, disappeared (on 25 October 1910), shortly after the proclamation of the First Portuguese Republic.
Marshall argued that the versions of Cicero and Sallust constituted two different traditions, and that only Cicero implicated Catiline, other scholars have found no details in the two Late Republican accounts that are mutually exclusive or that exculpate Catiline.
In the 2020s, a soldier giving a coup de grâce to kill an incapacitated or seriously wounded soldier would be a war crime.
Figurative use Its meaning has extended to refer to the final event that causes a figurative death or ending.
Bloodied towels, sheets, clothing, cloths and a garden hose were used as crude instruments during the ordeal, and to hide the corpses after death, Kahlon hid them in her bedroom, spraying air freshener to mask the smell of decaying flesh.
Some cities are considered to be larger than the official metropolitan area or municipality determined by a country's respective government.
Sources and chronology Primary information related to Ithobaal comes from Josephus's citation of the Phoenician author Menander of Ephesus, in Against Apion i.18.
A sister of Tekena discovered that her brother and his friends were about to be killed via "jungle justice." She tried to intervene by screaming and reiterating their innocence but was overpowered by the size of the mob.
As of 2008, the Observatory demands the implementation of the declaration of Alerta de Violencia de Género contras las Mujeres in the State of Mexico.
The first interpretatio of Teutates as Mercury has caused a minority of scholars to identify Teutates with Caesar's Gaulish Mercury.
The CrustaStun design consists of a stainless-steel box approximately the size of a domestic microwave oven containing a tray with a wet sponge and an electrode.
In popular culture The Malaysian mythology surrounding hantu belian possessing humans and killing at random is a crucial plot point in The Night Tiger by Yangsze Choo.
Venice had in its employ a spy and intriguer, the Cretan adventurer and businessman David Mavrogonato, regarded as a malshin (moser) by the Jews of his native Heraklion, who was engaged in furthering Venetian interests in the Ottoman Empire's dominions in the Aegean.
There is no record of any punishment meted out to Spenser, who may have successfully argued self-defence.
In Europe, this practice is often referred to as "organ donation after euthanasia (ODE)." By 2020, MAiD through lethal intravenous injection had been legalized in eight countries, and over 17,000 procedures had been conducted.
Incidents of torture, extrajudicial killings and sexual violence have also persisted in the post war period especially against Tamils and other ethnic and sexual minorities.
During the summer of 1941, the Ustaša continued with mass murders of Serbs – of 1,000 inhabitants of Prebilovci, 820 of them were killed, while in the neighbouring places of the lower basin of the Neretva river, including Šurmanci, around 4,000 Serbs were killed.
King and his older brothers all eventually became involved in the betting scheme, with King later stating "So now what we did is we capitalized off of this here, and we hustled.
Ivanko (Bulgarian: Иванко, Greek: Ιβαγκός), also referred to by some scholars as Ivanko-Alexius, was a Vlach boyar who killed his cousin Ivan Asen I, the ruler of the renascent Second Bulgarian Empire, in 1196.
This is much higher than an often quoted figure in the popular press of 20 million, or a 2010s scholarly figure of 9 million.
Madman Entertainment and Manga Entertainment released the series in Australia and the UK, respectively.
Usually the victim is a woman who has violated sexual norms, such as refusing an arranged marriage or having relationships with unapproved, unrelated people.
Consistent with his views, he held inquests into all sudden deaths, including deaths in police custody.
Sultan of Sokoto Sa’adu Abubakar III and the Sokoto Sultanate Council also condemned the "unfortunate happenings" and urged security agencies to bring the perpetrators to justice.
In April 2025, Sim was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to eight years in prison, while Peh was given seven years' jail for not protecting his daughter from child abuse.
See also Infanticide Infanticide (zoology) Infanticide in carnivores Infanticide in rodents Sexual selection Siblicide == References ==
See also List of Brazilian federative units by homicide rate Crime in Brazil List of cities by murder rate Homicide in world cities List of countries by firearm-related death rate List of countries by intentional homicide rate == References ==
A sequel series, Street Fighter: World Warrior, which would have seen Ryu and Ken come into conflict with M.
Cultural impact In the controversial video game series Postal, the player takes on the role of a mass murderer in the first game, and in the later series a first-person role performing normally mundane chores (such as picking up a paycheck from work) with an often gratuitously violent twist.
December 17, 2006: Couple Jessica Ellen Stasinowsky, twenty, and Valerie Paige Parashumti, nineteen, drugged, beat, and strangled their sixteen-year-old flatmate, Stacey Mitchell, before disposing of her body in a wheelie bin in Lathlain, Western Australia.
Biography His plays were presented on the most important Parisian stages of his time including the Théâtre des Variétés, the Théâtre des Nouveautés, and the Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique.
Clifford's brother Bradley is also a convicted murderer, having been sentenced at the Old Bailey in 2018 and still in prison at the time of the Hunts' murders.
Moments before he died, he told his wife the following: Tell them my name, that I accomplished the mission of sacrificing my life for my country.
In 1767, Johnstone returned with Bell and several other Indian servants to London where they lived for four years, before the family moved to Balgonie House in Fife.
Florence Maybrick (1862–1941) spent fourteen years in prison in England after being convicted of murdering her considerably older English husband, James Maybrick, in 1889.
1342: Gediminas's funeral included a human sacrifice, with his favourite servant and several German slaves being burned on the pyre with the corpse.
It was created on 22 May 1611 for John Stradling, later Member of Parliament for St Germans and Old Sarum and Glamorgan.
We can't have a debate on US intervention overseas if we don't even know where are our forces are, let alone to what end".
Home media Funimation acquired the home video distribution rights and released the web series on DVD and Blu-ray under their Giant Ape label.
This reform applied to all types of agricultural land, both public and private, regardless of tenure arrangement and crops produced.
In Tekken Tag Tournament, she was noted as "feared by many players" due to her many combos that are difficult to counter, but her command list has a high execution barrier; she is a challenge, requiring a lot of practice to master.
Conversely, some cities are also considered to be significantly smaller than their official metro area(s) designations.
Accounts from earlier famines indicate that wealthy people sometimes purchased poor children when their starving parents had to sell them, and then used them as a source of meat.
Staggie's daughter, Ingrid Carolus, came out of their house two hours after the shooting, screaming: "He's dead, he's dead!" The shooting occurred after another Hard Livings leader, Ballie Tips, was shot and killed in Mitchells Plain the previous night.
Views on women Honor killings are often a result of strongly misogynistic views towards women and the position of women in society.
Thus the New Fire Ceremony started the new cycle and ensured the sun would return each day for another 18,980 days.
Livestreaming has been a way for mass shooters to gain public attention, and several mass shootings have been livestreamed, either through webcams or body-worn cameras.
Homo sacer is defined in legal terms as someone who can be killed without the killer being regarded as a murderer; and a person who cannot be sacrificed.
The poll caused the hashtag #babyhitler to begin trending on Twitter, as the social media platform's users debated the subject.
The intentions of those who carried out these acts may be unrecoverable; surviving sources only indicate which elements were worth noting and might be construed as sacral.
To dispose of the evidence of their crime, the Titans chopped the body into pieces, cooked, and ate them.
Malampaka is part of Sukumaland and located roughly halfway between the cities of Shinyanga and Mwanza, about 40 miles (64 km) southeast of the latter.
The recovered bullet was a 6.35 caliber bullet from an automatic pistol, a weapon that was not used by the Portuguese police at the time, fueling speculation that some para-military personnel had killed him.
King Den After the death of King Den, about 230 individuals died simultaneously for "something or someone of extreme importance".
Since they both had the same first name, Van Doren at one point suggested that everyone in the skydiving club call her younger friend "Babs" so there would be less confusion.
Peter Grey describes Rima's poetry as "delicate" and "beautiful": usually reflecting European scenes even though her characters and plots were oriental.
Involuntary manslaughter encompasses manslaughter due to an unlawful and dangerous act, due to criminal levels of negligence, and due to reckless actions.
In a last attempt, she contacted family members and the police but the men had been killed by the time the assistance was sought.
It was bombed in mid-November 2020, then shelled by artillery fire a few weeks later, resulting in heavy destruction of property and multiple civilian deaths.
For marriage bride price is paid to the parents of the bride by the groom, which is a striking feature of the Khonds.
The court also heard updated assessments by psychiatrists of the perpetrators: Jenkinson has anti-social personality disorder rather than autism, and that Ratcliffe has a "mild" form of autism spectrum disorder.
A Noble Rake: The Life of Charles, Fourth Lord Mohun; being a Study in the Historical Background of Thackeray's "Henry Esmond".
In return, Nicholas mortgaged his properties in Bread Street and Southwark to Collet and Browne for the supposed amount of the debts, £1478.
Once there, Ramos tried to reconcile the matter by talking to her attacker to avoid hitting her, but Martínez ignored her and began to hit her.
On 22 June 2017, Vallenilla was in a protest on the Francisco Fajardo highway, in Caracas, when a military official fired a shotgun at him from inside the La Carlota air base.
In popular culture Several notable artists and entertainers have dedicated their work to Jackson's memory or created works based on his life.
The “Tigray: Atlas of the humanitarian situation”, that documented this massacre received international media attention, particularly regarding its Annex A, that lists massacres in the Tigray War.
The term "euthanasia" is usually confined to the active variety; the University of Washington website states that "euthanasia generally means that the physician would act directly, for instance by giving a lethal injection, to end the patient's life".
In response to this, several governments have outlawed the distribution of filmed mass shootings, including the government of New Zealand after the Christchurch mosque shootings.
The Assassination of Umberto I of Italy took place on 29 July 1900 on Matteo da Campione Street in Monza.
1830: Mémorial de Sir Hudson Lowe, relatif à la captivité de Napoléon 1831: Le Chiffonnier, 5 vol., with Stanislas Macaire 1831: Le Commissionnaire, mœurs du XIXe Bibliography Joseph Marie Quérard, La France littéraire ou dictionnaire bibliographique des savants, vol.8, 1838, p.
Human rights activists suggest that this targeting is retaliation for the killing of police officers.
Multiple homicides Listed in chronological order Serial killers Listed in chronological order by date of earliest homicide Organized crime Lynchings and race riots Single homicides == References ==
The motivation for this is to distance the debate from suicides commonly performed by those not terminally ill, as they believe that the use of "suicide" is not an accurate representation of the medical practice.
The violence provoked international condemnation of those responsible; US State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns declared that "these Islamic terrorists...
Also as a result swords were replaced as the weapons of choice in duels by the pistol, which tended to result in shorter and less bloody fights.
"They Who Burned Themselves for Peace: Quaker and Buddhist Self-Immolators during the Vietnam War", Buddhist-Christian Studies 20, 127–150 (subscription required) Kovan, Martin (2013).
On 23 October, Trump wrote on Twitter, "I had a very respectful conversation with the widow of La David Johnson, and spoke his name from beginning, without hesitation!" On 25 October, Trump told reporters that he did not "specifically" authorize the mission in Niger.
Miura was increasingly concerned over growing Russian influence over the Korean government, and less than a month after his arrival in Korea, Empress Myeongseong ordered the disbanding of the Japanese-trained Hullyeondae militia.
After they both left Willow Park at the end of 2003, the two remained out of contact with each other until September 2010, when they met again while working at the same North Shore supermarket.
However, Heywood appears to praise Spenser in his Apology for Actors, listing him with other deceased actors whose "deserts yet live in the remembrance of many".
Hazmi's appeals against the death penalty were dismissed by the Court of Appeal and Federal Court on 1 March 2023 and 2 July 2024, respectively, and he is currently on death row awaiting his execution.
References External links Australian True Crime podcast - Meshel Laurie and Emily Webb Facebook group We Remember profile
There are records of substitute king rituals respectively lasting 47 days, 20 days, 7 days, and even as short as 3 days.
The jury was competent to assess whether the failure to discharge that implied duty was gross negligence without hearing any expert evidence; these were not technical issues and they did not need expert help.
Serial killers active in Oregon include Keith Hunter Jesperson, Robert Wayne Danielson, and Sebastian Shaw.
from al-Muqtadir Ramón probably had a daughter; his heir in 1132 was a granddaughter named Marquesa, who donated her inheritance to Santa Maria de Zaragoza.
The holding of a trial would have given the impression of the rule of law to observers including Western nations.
Though Dingane allowed Owen to reside just outside his capital, he considered the Christian faith a fiction of the English, which was of no use to him or his subjects.
In 1972, Romas Kalanta, a 19-year-old Lithuanian student, self-immolated to protest against the Soviet regime in Lithuania, sparking the 1972 unrest in Lithuania; another 13 people self-immolated in that same year.
Priesthood The tribal priests of Kecaikhati are called Deori, who today form a community called the Deori people.
Attackers armed with knives, sabers, and guns killed 42 people - including 17 women and 3 babies - in 3 hours, mutilating and sometimes burning the bodies.
An early Western account of the practice appears in the journals of British explorer Captain James Cook, who purportedly encountered amok firsthand in 1770 during a voyage around the world.
Single homicides – notable homicides involving a single fatality which do not fall within the scope of one of the above categories.
During the witch-hunts in the early modern period, women suspected of witchcraft were repeatedly charged with killing, roasting, and eating babies in Satanic rituals.
The castle doctrine and "stand-your-ground" laws provide legal defenses to persons who have been charged with various use-of-force crimes against persons, such as murder, manslaughter, aggravated assault, and illegal discharge or brandishing of weapons, as well as attempts to commit such crimes.
A display on the early history of the Hainich region based primarily on discoveries at the site is planned for the Hainich National Park near Kammerforst.
French Foreign Minister Louis Barthou was also killed by a stray bullet fired by French police during the scuffle following the attack.
Its 1856 amendment however restricted this to a mere confidential birth, where the midwife was ordered to keep the mother's name in a sealed envelope to allow the grown-up child to request undisclosure of its biological ancestry.
However – similar to findings in a large Danish study – the majority had not had contact with mental health services prior to the murders, and few had received treatment.
The court held that the deceased's death was not caused by injuries that were a foreseeable result of the affray.
Specifically, the law states that killings motivated by a [trans] woman's gender-identity, along with the circumstances of the victim's relationship to the perpetrator, constitute femicide.
On 10 November, the day following the attack, Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews confirmed that "what we saw yesterday was an act of terror." The Guardian has described that he has expressed confidence in the Victoria Police to ensure the safety of Melbourne.
He asked Palestinians to thwart attacks on Israeli positions, to end what Israelis view as incitement in the media, and to proceed to arrest militant gunmen.
"Sacrifice for the State: First Dynasty Royal Funerals and the Rites at Macramallah's Rectangle." 15–37.
On January 13, 1631 he commanded the Mapuche army with Butapichón against Spanish forces led by the very competent Governor Francisco Laso de la Vega who defeated them in the pitched battle of La Albarrada.
Seeing this, the young people began to pull out their identification cards, but the men ordered them to lie down on the ground.
The term sacred man could also have been used because the condemned could only rely on protection of gods.
In the 819th year of Our Lord's incarnation, Ügyek, who, as we said above, being of the family of King Magog became a long time later the most noble prince of Scythia, took to wife in Dentumoger the daughter of Duke Eunedubelian, called Emese, from whom he sired a son, who was named Álmos.
Vogel left the acting profession to report the news and worked for a short time as journalist before he was killed in the Ten-Day War as Yugoslavia was dividing in the aftermath of Marshall Josip Broz Tito's death.
The killing of Xiomara Scott was documented in a report by a panel of independent experts from the Organization of American States, considering that it could constitute a crime against humanity committed in Venezuela along with other killings during the protests.
Peh Wei Jian was the third person to be charged under Section 304C of the Penal Code for allowing the death of a child under the same household, and the only person in 2023 to be indicted for such offences under the Penal Code.
In 2021, males accounted for most homicide victims in all jurisdictions except in Austria, the Czech Republic, Iceland, Latvia, Norway, Slovenia and Switzerland, where females were slightly more likely to be homicide victims.
Kummel, Gerhard and Nina Leonhard"Casualties and Civil-Military Relations: The German Polity between Learning and Indifference." [16].Armed Forces & Society, Jul 2005; vol.
Crime On 18 November 2006, 12 members of a skydiving club that included Van Doren, Somers, and Clottemans, flew over Flanders.
Mass killing is a concept which has been proposed by genocide scholars who wish to define incidents of non-combat killing which are perpetrated by a government or a state.
He was assisted by Duke Dan of Zhou, the Duke of Bi, and the Duke of Shao in carrying out King Wen of Zhou's ambition.
Both groups competed as suppliers of credit, but the older Italian Jewish communities quickly lost out to the new Yiddish-speaking Ashkenazi, and were forced to close down their banking operations in many northern areas in consequence.
Differences from the National Vital Statistics System In 2000, the National Vital Statistics System's homicide estimates exactly matched those of the SHR in 22% of U.S.
This was done as collective punishment for the fatal poisoning of Genghis Khan's father, Yesugei, for which the Mongols blamed the Tatars according to The Secret History of the Mongols.
The figure shows Gallo-Roman influence and may be compared to Diana, to whom deer and swine were also sacrificed.
Different cultures and authors in history have used different definitions for what constitutes the crime of regicide.
During his first years at San Quentin State Prison, Jackson involved himself in revolutionary activity.
Cooke stated: "My father told me it was not what I sang that was important, but that God gave me a voice and musical talent and the true use of His gift was to share it and make people happy." Taking the name "Sam Cooke", he sought a fresh start in pop.
Involuntary euthanasia, typically regarded as a type of murder, occurs when euthanasia is performed on a person who would be able to provide informed consent, but does not, either because they do not want to die, or because they were not asked.
About half of the states that maintain the death penalty have included pedicide to their list of aggravating factors that may make a murder punishable by death.
Mansur Ibrahim defended the suspects who were subsequently acquitted by the court citing non-showing of prosecution lawyers.
American philosopher Janet Stemwedel therefore considers killing baby Hitler to be an unreliable means for maximising happiness.
At the archaeological site of Herxheim, Germany, more than a thousand people were killed and eaten about 7000 years ago, and the evidence indicates that many of them were spit-roasted whole over open fires.
Ayton, Jared's best friend, arrives at the party with a bottle of rum called "Nevis Mountain Dew." When people drink it, the rum seems to act as a truth serum.
When he was congratulated by locals on his fluent German, he responded: "I learned it in Bergen-Belsen".
1975 – Police charged Boston Bruins player Dave Forbes with aggravated assault after a fight with Henry Boucha of the Minnesota North Stars.
Thomas Harold Gamboa (born February 28, 1948) is an American professional baseball coach and manager.
Mark Collins tackled Clack and referee Pat Haggerty ruled the play a safety and gave two points to New York.
The Båstad riots (Swedish: Båstadskravallerna) is the name given to the riots that took place during a Davis Cup tennis match between Sweden and Rhodesia on 3 May 1968 in Båstad, Sweden.
"We had no choice but to start with preventive measures." As the campaign continued, relatives of the athletes killed at Munich were kept informed.
The police commissioner of Bangalore, Shankar Bidari, said that it was a "minor bomb blast" and that investigations were "in full swing" to find out who was responsible.
In 1985, at age 11, she won the Junior Orange Bowl tournament in Miami, Florida, which caught the attention of tennis coach Nick Bollettieri.
Later, Igli Tare, former Albanian captain and current Lazio sports director, declared that he was with Rama, and that the latter merely carried a camera.
In New York City, although the celebrations marking the Rangers' first championship in 54 years were peaceful and there were no reports of violence or arrests, they were marred by the Vancouver riots.
The Connollystraße is a street in the Olympic Village and student quarter of the Olympic Park Munich.
He lived in Jerusalem until the 1967 Six-Day War, when he was displaced after Israel captured the eastern portion of the city.
The two deceased were Central Intelligence Organisation security personnel; Colour Sergeant Stanley Mugunzva of the Presidential Guard, who was assigned to Vice-President Chiwenga, and Nelson Dube, an aide to Vice-President Mohadi.
Outcome On 13 July, Louth's county executive committee issued a statement condemning what it described as "the unsavoury incidents after the match".
Besides attending Independiente matches, since 1982, the core members of the group attend the national team's World Cups.
Video A graphic video later surfaced online shortly following the incident that shows medical personnel reassembling Otávio's body.
TV replays immediately demonstrated that the referee was incorrect when he awarded the goal to Meath.
Seneca relates that a German prisoner, rather than participate, killed himself by forcing a sponge used in the lavatory down his throat.
The Capitol Police immediately engaged Hodgkinson and kept him pinned down, preventing him from continuing to fire on the unarmed baseball players.
Ultang said years later that they were very lucky that the incident took place when it did; they had only planned to stay through the first quarter so they could have enough time to develop the pictures before the newspaper's publication deadline.
2012 Summer Olympics On 9 July 2012, Suárez was selected for the Uruguay Olympic football team alongside Liverpool teammate Sebastián Coates to compete in the 2012 Olympic Games.
Relations between the Arabs who settled in Qamishli during the Arab Belt programme and Kurdish inhabitants had been tense for decades.
However, in the North American professional ice hockey league, the NHL, if a major penalty is assessed and the boarded player sustains a head or facial injury, the offending player receives an automatic game misconduct.
Details The "home" team (for administrative purposes) was determined by an additional draw held after the quarter-final and semi-final draws.
Bechler went to work in the security service of Lufthansa, including half a year in Delhi, then half a year in Lima.
Aside from his native Bosnian, he speaks English, Spanish, French, German and Russian to varying degrees of fluency.
Los Angeles Sparks forward Candace Parker ended up with the ball after a hard contested rebound, before having the ball stripped away by Ford and being fouled.
Local officials stayed outside the intensive care units where injured victims were taken after the attack and prevented journalists from speaking with family members.
Preparation for the attack Hamid told his mother that he was going back to Germany to study for approximately two and a half months.
Organized horse fighting is a blood sport between two stallions which is organized for the purposes of betting or entertainment.
Leeds' Premier League match against Arsenal the Sunday before the second leg was marked by Arsenal players laying flowers at all four corners of Elland Road and a minute's silence being held before the match started in respect for the death of the two Leeds fans.
Hollande was evacuated from the stadium at half-time, while the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, remained at the stadium.
After both teams left the pitch a second Danish fan took the ball from the penalty spot and ran across the stadium before scoring in Sweden's empty net.
Before kick-off, away supporters were held at Wigan Athletic's DW Stadium, to prevent congregation within Manchester city centre.
Match Events Before the game started, supporters of both teams chanted against the APL's decision to award A-League Grand Final hosting rights to Sydney for the next three years, as well as displaying banners criticising the decision in the 20th minute.
Robert Claus (2020): "Kampfsport für weiße Europäer — Der 'Kampf der Nibelungen und sein Netzwerk'".
Despite it being Murdoch's wicket that started the riot, the English public were more sympathetic towards him than Gregory, and although the Australians played against weak opposition, including many XVIIIs, they attracted large crowds, leading the counties to regret their decision to snub them.
The draw raised security concerns, in particular regarding the potential for possible reprisals, and the prospect of a large number of ticketless fans arriving in Manchester.
National Hockey League (NHL) The NHL defines a cross check in their Rule 59 as "The action of using the shaft of the stick between the two hands to forcefully check an opponent".
You don't have to worry about that." One day after his release from the Pirates, he was acquired by the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
Some rugby supporters echoed the separation of politics and sport, while other rugby supporters argued that if the tour were cancelled, there would be no reporting of the widespread criticism of apartheid in New Zealand in the controlled South African media.
The two-point conversion attempt failed leaving the score 54–48 Hawaii, and giving Houston a chance to win.
Most scholars believe that the timeline provided is derived from two diverging traditions, including one by John Malalas and one by Procopius.
He shifted his story, claiming that while he had provided some free invitations, the Ultras had "thugged" their way in and orchestrated the violence to sabotage the state.
Death On 23 August 2014, Bodjongo was struck on the head by a projectile thrown by an unknown person while the teams were leaving the field at the end of a home game between JSK and USM Alger.
Clarification on match context While some early reports referred to Otávio da Silva as a "referee" in an "amateur football match", later accounts and eyewitness testimonies suggest the game was informal and unsanctioned.
Williams was quoted as saying he and his lawyers "just wanted to prove what was right and wrong about football".
Melbourne defeated Manly 34–8 to win the 2007 title, whilst Manly reversed the result and won by a record 40–0 scoreline in 2008.
At 10:30, the performance of Wicked ended, and patrons were asked to stay inside the theatre to avoid the riot.
222–235) may have intended a more even redistribution of munera throughout the year; but this would have broken with what had become the traditional positioning of the major gladiator games, at the year's ending.
Northeast Conference NEC commissioner Noreen Morris said she was "disgusted" by the events and that the conference would launch an investigation into the brawl.
Essendon entered the match having won nine of the previous ten meetings between the two clubs, by an average margin of 39 points.
After her husband returned, the woman still chose to stay with her new lover, and the two were married.
Vigenère adds two more types of bestiarii: the first were those who made a trade of it, and fought for money.
The Islamic State claimed responsibility for attack, claiming those targeted were members of the Popular Mobilization Forces.
The game ended with a record 13 ejections and also 5 arrests, with a few spectators getting involved in the ruckus.
Today in some countries, there are efforts to bring the fighting into mainstream by regulating the rules, ensure the fairness and the welfare of the fighting rams.
1991 On June 12, 1991, the Bulls defeated the Los Angeles Lakers four games to one in the 1991 NBA Finals.
When the students had learned the President was not available, they then relocated to Grand River Ave, where a small riot ensued.
Due to tensions of the ongoing Troubles, England fans became extremely unruly, as well as violent, and ended up forcing the match to be abandoned.
In ice hockey, the boarding call is often a major penalty due to the likelihood of injury sustained by the player who was boarded, and officials have the discretion to call a game misconduct or a match penalty (if they feel the offense was a deliberate attempt to injure) on the offending player.
Career statistics Regular season and playoffs References External links Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
Ware and his Hurricane Forward tactical headquarters at Camp Lê Văn Duyệt which assumed tactical control of all U.S.
By the time they finished with a 12–4 record and entered the playoffs, they had earned the number one seed, and not allowed any touchdowns in the previous 10 quarters.
LSU fans threw debris on the field, which was criticized live on air by the ABC (ESPN) broadcast crew.
In some cultures it has been developed into a "game" or a sport, or even held as "national pastime" which sometimes involves betting.
Songs by such artists as State of Shock, Seemless, Art of Dying and Bruce Kulick were used as entrance themes.
Every man on the pitch soon found himself in the middle of the melee, apart from Meath's Brendan Reilly, Mayo goalkeeper John Madden and his full-back Kevin Cahill.
BYU Cougars In April 2014, organizers announced that they had reached a deal with BYU to play in the inaugural Miami Beach Bowl in 2014.
After his career, he was listed by ESPN as the fifth dirtiest player in professional team sports history.
A 'charge' is generally the result of attempting to hit an opposing player beyond what is called for with a typical hockey body check.
Even though this game contributed to sports venues stopping the use of plastic bottles, it is often overshadowed by the Cleveland Browns Bottlegate, along with the 2004 Pacers-Pistons Brawl.
References External links https://web.archive.org/web/20041206195310/http://www.vikingupdate.com/history/historyprofiles/hailmarydall.html https://www.nytimes.com/1988/10/07/sports/sports-people-erring-official-quits.html
Early in the game, Cleveland's Leron Lee hit a line drive into the stomach of Rangers pitcher Ferguson Jenkins, after which Jenkins dropped to the ground.
Treating others with respect and care is who we are, and we did not do that as a community as well as we should have last night.
The riots did not spread to the stadium, although there was an attempt to pull down the fences by fans heading towards the Arsenal area of the stadium before police stopped them.
The turnover—after an unsportsmanlike conduct call for excessive celebration—gave the Patriots the ball on their own 1-yard line with 20 seconds remaining in the game.
At the end of season, Seles had won 10 out of the 16 tournaments she entered (reaching the final of every tournament that she entered that year).
Background Tensions were already high during the first leg: the Turkey national team was met with hostility in Switzerland, and their national anthem was booed before the game began.
Background Motorcycle racing has been a national attraction that were held every Easter in Bathurst since 1931.
When such play occurs, the enforcer is expected to respond aggressively, by fighting or checking the offender.
During a lull in the exchange of bullets between the terrorists and German police, Bechler ran towards the airbase control tower but as he did so was shot at from the other helicopter.
The riot followed Game 7 of the 1994 Stanley Cup Finals in which the Vancouver Canucks lost to the New York Rangers.
The memorial is dedicated to his memory and to the memory of the ten other athletes who were killed.
Blažević was given the kepi by a colleague of the Daniel Nivel, at the match between Romania and Croatia, a day after the attack.
In photographs taken after the event, he can be seen lying facedown on the tarmac in a pool of blood.
According to Simon Reeve, Afif enjoyed the time he spent in Europe, but joined Fatah in 1966, possibly while residing in Germany.
Though the player suspensions has no bearing in the Asian Games since the sanctions will be served in the next round of the FIBA Basketball World Cup qualifiers, the SBP decided not to include any of players suspended due to the brawl in the Philippines' Asian Games roster.
These sub-groups generally carry the names of their neighborhoods or cities of origin, or the nicknames of their bosses.
He was among several Israeli team members that avoided being captured by terrorists in the Munich massacre.
​Technical Decisions: If the fight is stopped due to an accidental rabbit punch after a certain number of rounds, it may go to the scorecards.
In another fight, Vladimir Konstantinov levelled a head-butt that broke Greg Hawgood's nose; Brendan Shanahan later described it as "the greatest head-butt I've ever seen".
Ram fighting is a blood sport between two rams (large-horned male sheep), held in a ring or open field.
A tense match against Racing de Córdoba resulted in violent clashes between Racing supporters and the police.
The city's mayor César Prieto Gallardo said that the shooting was part of a larger crime wave and urged president Claudia Sheinbaum to intervene against the violence.
GLHF also hosted a vigil in front of the restaurant doors, which was attended by hundreds of people.
A match penalty is assessed for a cross-check if the referee feels that the offender aimed to deliberately hurt or injure the opponent.
Baseball In baseball, a beanball is a pitch, similar to a brushback pitch but actually intended to hit the batter as it is thrown at the head.
Drawn game Details Replay Details Post-match Inaccurate stories spread afterwards that McEnaney had received hate mail at his home, but, McEnaney later said, the only letter he received (from a Meath supporter) praised McEnaney for how he had handled the brawl.
Teams that are losing by a considerable margin often start these fights near the end of the game when they have nothing to lose.
The trial received much publicity as it was highly unusual for an athlete to face criminal charges for assault during a game.
Though it was never an organized sport, participants would sometimes schedule their fights (as one could schedule a duel), and victors were treated as local heroes.
Some time after their arrival a Volkswagen packed with plastic explosives was parked along Rue Verdun within view of the rented apartment.
On that same day, Bobinski used Mack's radio show to again apologize and take questions from fans concerning the incident.
While historical fiction depicts real-life sports such as gladiatorial games and jousting, speculative fiction, especially dystopic science fiction, suggests variants of blood sports in a contemporary or future society.
Tim Couch took the snap and passed short to Quincy Morgan, who caught the ball for a 3-yard gain and a first down.
At the start of the 2005 season, Parcells accepted he made a misjudgment by moving Gurode to guard and switched him back to center, with the Cowboys also signing Marco Rivera to take his place at guard.
See also List of national memorials of the United States References External links Official NPS website: David Berger National Memorial David Mark Berger website
The black steel sculpture, a design of broken Olympic rings, is meant to symbolize the interruption of the Munich games by the tragic events, and the eleven segments on which the rings rest represent each athlete whose life was taken.
Post-conflict events In the season following the conflicts, Roma were once again set to play Manchester United.
The event traditionally begins when a certain kind of sea worm swims to shore, signifying the end of the wet season and the beginning of crop-planting.
Matchday The match was abandoned following the events that broke out after the goal scored by Kayserispor's Oktay Aktan in the 20th minute.
This led to a further 100 people being arrested, including over 30 juveniles who were charged with curfew violations.
Tony Deogan (25 November 1975 – 2 August 2002) was a Swedish man killed in Stockholm before a football match, when he suffered a brutal attack at the hands of supporters of another team.
During his time with Detroit, he earned praise from head coach Mike Babcock and teammates for adapting his playing style to be more defensively responsible.
In 2012, Alon released a book entitled Munich Memoir, co-authored by Carla Stockton, recounting his experiences at the 1972 Munich Olympics, and the impact on his life.
I can't do anything." He also noted that he had not been asked to endorse anything, not even a dog food commercial (he also noted himself as someone would be so happy to do one that he would "eat the dog food").
Vancouver president and general manager Brian Burke, the league's former chief disciplinarian, described the play as "a marginal player going after a superstar with a headhunting hit".
After acquiring Artest in late January 2006, the team immediately went on a 14–5 run, the team's best run of the season.
He was among six Israeli team members who avoided being captured by terrorists in the Munich massacre.
Despite the life ban, Rumaropen still played for Persiwa Wamena on Premier League after getting relegated from Super League that year.
A notice in the Birmingham Gazette described the pamphlet as written "in the kindest spirit" and "worth a careful reading", while remarking that such works rarely reach those "who need them most".
No armoured vehicles were at the scene at Fürstenfeldbruck airbase and were only called in after the gunfight was well underway.
According to Russian officials, fourteen missiles were shot down but one hit and "heavily damaged" a shopping center in Belgorod city.
Specifically: 'The use of animals in shows, fights, popular festivals and other activities that imply cruelty or mistreatment, that can cause death, suffering or make them the object of unnatural and unworthy treatments' is prohibited (Article 30).
Hardcore wrestling was first acknowledged as a major wrestling style in Japan with promotions such as Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling and W*ING.
Amin al-Hindi (9 January 1941 – 17 August 2010) was a Palestinian politician who served as the intelligence chief of the Palestinian Authority.
The Liga MX will also not disaffiliate Querétaro from the league to avoid any interference with the rest of the 2022 Clausura season.
The Bulldogs entered the bowl with an overall record of 3–7; they were ranked at number 16 in the AP Poll early in the season after defeating the defending national champions, LSU.
Almost every building in Aggieville had its windows smashed, people climbed to the tops of several buildings, and a 1968 Volkswagen Beetle was rolled over and torched.
The foundation breed of the fighting dog was, in its outward appearance, a large, low, heavy breed with a powerful build, strongly developed head, and tremendously threatening voice.
To the perpetrator The attacker stated in court that he was intoxicated by the consumption of alcohol, to a degree that he could not recall attacking the referee.
After winning his first NBA championship in 2010, Artest apologized to Jackson and other Pacers for being "so young and egotistical", stating "sometimes I feel like a coward when I see those guys.
2013 season Burfict entered training camp slated as the team's starting weakside linebacker under defensive coordinator Mike Zimmer.
Chris Burrows, chair of the Manchester Police Federation, claimed the screen was deliberately switched off.
ECW's popularity led to the major American promotions of the 1990s, World Championship Wrestling and World Wrestling Federation, creating divisions devoted exclusively to "hardcore" wrestling (which mostly amounted to no-disqualification weapons matches).
The pressure was on the GAA authorities to act fast and deal with the controversy on the pitch, but it took weeks for the organisation to sort out all the disciplinary matters arising from the final.
This has been aided, in no small part, by dramatic increases in disciplinary processes and technology allowing for a high level of scrutiny of any event which occurs.
After serving his sentence, he asked Ajax permission to apply for a yearly subscription, which was granted.
With a 58–24 record, the Timberwolves qualified for the 2004 playoffs as the top seed in the Western Conference.
Hey, over the years, you learn to forget things." When Roseboro died, Marichal served as an honorary pallbearer at his funeral.
This call caused several Saints fans inside of the Superdome to become angry and start throwing beer bottles, cups, ice, and paper onto the field, which led to a 30-minute stoppage.
Earlier in the game, Barney Rock had scored an 11th-minute goal, but all was overshadowed by what followed.
On January 31, 2007, Sprewell's long-term companion sued him for $200 million for ending their relationship agreement.
On 21 and 28 March 1969, the Czechoslovakia national ice hockey team beat the Soviet team in the 1969 World Ice Hockey Championships in Stockholm.
Artest immediately reacted to this by jumping off the table, charging into the stands, and grabbing another spectator, Michael Ryan, whom he mistakenly believed was responsible.
New York Mets On December 6, 2011, Francisco agreed to a two-year contract worth $12 million with the New York Mets.
There was condemnation from some of the British and Jewish press, as well as from some members of the Labour Party and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
However, the original and early precursor was the notable trend of Liverpool youths starting to dress differently from other football fans at the time in Peter Storm jackets, straight-leg jeans and Adidas trainers.
In 2008 an English club player was banned for eighty weeks following a biting incident that left a player with "a partial amputation of the right index finger".
Documents uncovered in 2012 show that logistical help and support were supplied by two German neo-Nazis, Wolfgang Abramowski and Willi Pohl.
The whole football world strongly condemned the riot, showing full support for Pancalli's decision to stop all football activities in Italy, and suggested a solution akin to the UK's Football Spectators Act 1989, the goal of which was to wipe out football hooliganism.
He has released solo albums featuring guitar and tape manipulation, and has contributed articles to British music magazine The Wire.
Two days later, after an amateur football match at Lykovrysi between the home team and Pangrati, 20 persons wearing hoods, attacked with crowbars and clubs 3 players of the away team, among them Nikos Stylianesis, who was one of those charged but later released for Filopoulos murder.
Dinamo Zagreb also "condemned the incident and expressed their condolences to the family of a fan who lost his life".
Leagues that operate under IIHF rules may impose further disciplinary action; for example, the standard procedure in Liiga is to give 2-game suspensions to players who start fighting after agreeing upon it in advance as opposed to a natural escalation.
The Delije proceeded to attack them with torn-off seats after reportedly chanting Serbian nationalist slogans like, "Zagreb is Serbian" and, "We'll kill Tuđman".
In some places, particularly Prague, the celebrations turned to protests against the Soviet military who continued to occupy the country after the Warsaw Pact invasion the previous August.
Future meetings The next meeting between the two sides would not take place until Wednesday 29 May 2013, a friendly at Wembley Stadium, and the next meeting in the Republic of Ireland was on Sunday 7 June 2015 at Dublin's Aviva Stadium.
Rule 42 of the NHL rulebook dictates that: A minor or major penalty shall be imposed on a player who skates, jumps into or charges an opponent in any manner.
Group stage Group A Group B Group C Group D Knockout stage See also Enforcer (hockey) Fighting in ice hockey == References ==
The intended target of the strike may have been a nearby base of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).
Ramifications One day after the murder, on 8 August, Greek journalist Giorgos Mazias issued a warning to Croatian tourists in Greece.
During the season, Ciccarelli played in the 1982 NHL All-Star Game, hosted by the Washington Capitals, with the Campbell Conference, where he assisted on a goal by Wayne Gretzky in a 4–2 loss to the Wales Conference.
Thomas was not penalized after the brawl, as an NBA investigation ruled that they did not have "adequate evidence upon which to make a determination", but several writers criticized the NBA for not including Thomas in the suspensions.
Australia Captain Greg Davis 31 July 1971 – Brisbane Exhibition Ground, Brisbane, South Africa 14–6 Australia First try: Piet Visagie 7 August 1971 – Sydney Cricket Ground, Sydney.
After moving to Ukraine, he founded the Russian Volunteer Corps (RVC) in 2022 and has been the group's leader, fighting on the side of Ukraine in the Russo-Ukrainian war.
It was written by Jelle Leeksma, directed by Bobby Boermans and stars Loek Peters, Ilse Heus and Joost Koning.
Perpetrator According to a police statement, the suspect was a 62-year-old divorced man named Fan Weiqiu (樊维秋).
On 11 August, Croatian actor Rene Bitorajac published on Instagram that Greek news wrongly portrayed him as a football hooligan by showing scenes from Croatian feature film Metastases in their news.
In the playoffs, Ciccarelli had a four-goal game on April 25, 1992, as Washington defeated the Pittsburgh Penguins 7–2.
The brawl Tommy Dowd got a goal and Brendan Reilly got the winning point but none of this matters: all is forgotten now apart from the infamous brawl which broke out over by the Cusack Stand in the shadow of Hill 16.
See also Cockfighting Dog fighting Betta fighting References External links The brutal world of sheep fighting: the illegal sport beloved by Algeria’s 'lost generation' — The Guardian
The Danish newspaper Ekstra Bladet has identified him by the initial "R", while other news media decided not to publish his name citing "the serious threat" against him.
The hijacking Note: For consistency reasons, all times have been converted to Central European Time.
He is a former baseball player and former legislative assistant for Congressmen Tim Walberg and Dave Camp, both Republicans from Michigan.
This took place the day after a notable brawl at an NBA game in Detroit, the "Malice at the Palace".
Puerto Rico's Cockfighting Commission regulates 87 clubs, but many non-government sanctioned "underground" cockfighting operations exist.
On 2 October 2010, Gavin Quinnell suffered an eye injury during a game between Llanelli and Cross Keys, from which he lost the sight in his left eye.
After the bomb blast police secured the area following which the Twenty20 cricket match between the home team Royal Challengers Bangalore and Mumbai Indians, started an hour late at (1700 IST).
After they had captured the athletes in apartment number one and three, they led them under guard down the stairs to the ground floor of the building.
See also Timeline of the Russian invasion of Ukraine (1 December 2023 - present) 30 December 2023 Belgorod shelling == References ==
When asked directly if he had killed any of the Israelis, Adnan Al-Gashey simply replied, "It's not important for me to say if I killed Israeli (sic) or not." Later life It is believed that Al-Gashey has spent the time since his release in hiding in North Africa.
Following a handball by Alpay Özalan, Alexander Frei converted a penalty, putting Switzerland ahead.
Week 17: at Baltimore Ravens The Steelers ended their season on the road for Round 2 against the Ravens.
The 2000 UEFA Cup semi-final violence in Istanbul, Turkey, between fans of English football team Leeds United and Turkish team Galatasaray on 5 April 2000, the day before the first match of their UEFA Cup semi-final, led to two Leeds fans being stabbed to death by Galatasaray fans.
When he entered high school he played football merely so he could be around a close friend, and have someone to walk home with at night as he was terrified of walking home alone.
A right-handed wicket-keeper/batsman, Anderson represented the Bermudian national side between 2010 and 2013, most notably at the 2011 World Cricket League Division Two tournament and the 2012 World Twenty20 Qualifier.
In 1844, a decree dictated by the Captain General of the island, Leopoldo O'Donnell, forbade non-white people to attend these shows.
In the late 1990s, La Guardia Imperial, along with regular Racing fans (not just hooligans), united to prevent the judicial auction of the club’s headquarters in the Villa del Parque neighborhood of Buenos Aires.
Historically the Scouts Club had been known as Muslim Scouts Club as all players and most of its fans were Muslims.
The Rowbottom was incited by students from New York opening their windows in the Quad, and shouting Network's signature line, "I'm mad as hell and I'm not taking it anymore".
However, wickets tumbled through the afternoon, none of the incoming batsmen passed single figures, and New South Wales were all out for 177, a deficit of 90 runs.
Only the replay official could initiate a review; unlike today's NFL, coaches were not allowed to challenge plays (the collegiate system also allows challenges, although the procedure is different).
The Battle of Brookvale was the unofficial name given to the Round 25, 2011 National Rugby League (NRL) match between the Manly Warringah Sea Eagles and Melbourne Storm, played at Brookvale Oval on 26 August 2011.
Seles then won the Virginia Slims of Los Angeles title against Martina Navratilova and then defeated Navratilova again in winning the Oakland California tournament, in straight sets.
The game is also memorable for fighting that occurred between teams at the completion of the game, as players got into shouting matches and punches were thrown.
Amy Hayes served as the interviewer and announcer for pre-match introductions, while Ray Walker announced winners and decisions, and Geoff Gregoire was the lead referee.
On 2 October 2010, Gavin Quinnell of the Welsh regional team Scarlets suffered an eye injury 30 minutes into a game between Scarlets feeder club Llanelli and Cross Keys.
On 14 August, Dinamo Zagreb manager, Igor Bišćan, expressed his condolences to the family of deceased fan.
American environmentalist and writer Bill McKibben lamented the film on the Climate Progress website, where he wrote "The climate skeptics can crow.
CEB VER is a quality standard for the voluntary carbon offset industry created by Commodity Exchange Bratislava.
However, none have stated whether they will progress their own storage, or pay for the disposal of the carbon at either the Danish, Norwegian or British sites.
As part of an effort to discourage car use, there is a public transportation tax of 3.0 cents per litre in the case of gasoline sold in Montréal and surrounding municipalities.
To raise the payments, the host country would issue government bonds or negotiate some kind of loan with a financial institution that would want to take part in the compensation promised to the other country.
Activities ICAP's work focuses on three pillars: technical dialogue, ETS knowledge sharing, and capacity building activities.
As a historical precedent for a fossil fuel non-proliferation treaty, Newell and Simms cited the Toronto Conference on the Changing Atmosphere in 1988, where the threat of "climatic upheaval" was compared "second only to nuclear war"—a sentiment endorsed at the time by the CIA, MI5, United Nations.
The second, the Social Climate Fund, provides member states with funding with the aim of ensuring that vulnerable groups are not negatively impacted by the green transition, for example by mitigating energy poverty.
In 2008, Ning Zeng of the University of Maryland estimated 65 GtC lying on the floor of the world's forests as coarse woody material which could be buried and costs for wood burial carbon sequestration run at US$50/tC which is much lower than carbon capture from e.g.
In the second phase of the Energy Efficiency Commitment (2005–2008) scheme, energy saving targets were raised to 130 TWh suppliers, and here suppliers with at least 50,000 domestic customers (including affiliated licenses) were eligible for an obligation.
Whereas in degraded rangeland, 11.4% of the rainfall flows directly away to the river (runoff coefficient), this happens only for 2.5% of the rain in a recent exclosure and 3.2% in a eucalyptus forest.
These end-uses may be technically difficult to decarbonize through other means such as electrification with renewable power.
References External links Climate Change and Emissions Management Act Alberta Government, Environment, Climate Change
This is true except in cases where the allocation of emissions rights (i.e., the amount of emissions that each country is allowed to emit) in the ETS is particularly favourable to developing countries.
The vehicle conducted a 10-city, 3,750-mile pilot demonstration to raise awareness for alternative fuels, which culminated with the New York City premiere of the documentary film Fuel (film), directed by filmmaker and activist Josh Tickell.
Announcing the launch, Climate Action Network-Canada Executive Director Catherine Abreu said: "Canada and the UK are right to kick-start the Alliance, as science tells us that OECD countries need to phase out coal by 2030 at the latest".
In August 2007, Infometrics economist Adolf Stroombergen wrote an opinion article about permit auctions and free allocation for the Dominion Post.
Notably, the Global Climate Plan includes a mechanism that prevents middle-income countries such as China from being net contributor of international transfers, to encourage broader international participation.
The system is designed to facilitate completion and submission of verified emissions and benchmarking reports, viewing of approved emissions/benchmarking plans for existing operators and submission of emissions plans for new operators.
On 25 March 2025 an enhanced-weathering offtake with Eion (US$33 million; 78,707 t, 2027–2030) was announced.
The World Bank 2013 low-carbon energy development plan for Nigeria, prepared jointly with the World Bank, utilizes marginal abatement cost curves created in Analytica.
The facility has two main windows: a Readiness Fund focused on supporting readiness preparation and implementation, and a Carbon Fund intended to pilot results-based payments for verified emission reductions from the forest sector.
Personal carbon trading is the generic term for a number of proposed carbon emissions trading schemes under which emissions credits would be allocated to adult individuals on a (broadly) equal per capita basis, within national carbon budgets.
The Science Museum cut its emissions by 17% thanks to a new heating and cooling system in the galleries.
The Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act of Alberta was the first law of its type to impose greenhouse gas cuts on large industrial facilities.
In 2002, in the wake of both declining membership and President Bush's withdrawal from the Kyoto Protocol, the GCC announced that it would "deactivate" itself.
Taxpayers had to request the Climate Action Incentive Payment (CAIP) rebate on their annual income tax return until filing their 2021 tax return, since which eligibility for the rebate has been automatic and the taxpayer sent a cheque or had a direct deposit made into their bank account.
Relationship to carbon-crediting programmes and standards Voluntary carbon credits are typically issued and tracked through crediting programmes and registries that set methodologies and verification requirements for different project types.
See also The Carbon Principles References External links London Accord website Barclays report on its work with the London Accord
On 7 December 2023, Frontier buyers signed enhanced weathering offtakes with Lithos Carbon (US$57.1 million; 154,240 tons to 2028).
The fall of the Soviet Union led to massive restructuring and deindustrialization of many of the former Soviet Bloc.
Climate models from the IPCC and the IEA show it capturing around 1 billion tonnes of CO2 by 2030 and several billions of tons by 2050.
He further underscored the complexities and nuances of REDD+ and offered COONAPIP's contribution to national REDD+ efforts.
Several research models have shown that the optimal depth of injection requires consideration of intrinsic permeability and any changes in liquid carbon dioxide permeability for optimal storage.
Simon Sturgis and Gareth Roberts of Sturgis Associates in the United Kingdom originally developed ‘Carbon Profiling’ in December 2007.
The project sought to establish a new family of common powertrain components for electric propulsion, known as the "E-Flex Systems" or "Voltec".
SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy: by replacing inefficient traditional cooking methods with improved clean cooking technology.
Both Pakistan and The Bahamas joined this call in December, bringing the total number of countries working towards the development of a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty to 15 in early 2025.
The bill amended the Climate Change Response Act 2002 by inserting an emissions trading scheme including all sectors of the economy and all greenhouse gases.
Hundreds of GHG mitigation project types exist and have approved methodologies with established crediting programs.
The revenue that would be collected would be 100% returned as a monthly or annual payment to every American household.
The report also stated that the "net financial impact of the program on households in different income brackets would depend in large part on how many allowances were sold (versus given away), how the free allowances were allocated, and how any proceeds from selling allowances were used.
In 2003, the soils of the then young exclosure could hold 280 litres of water per m3, similar to the adjacent rangeland.
In June 2024, three carbon credit projects were suspended in the Brazilian Amazon after the police raids targeting Verra certified projects linked to a land-grabbing and illegal logging scam.
In July 2014, the carbon tax was repealed - as well as the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) that was to start in 2015.
In the future, China's carbon trading allowance would expect to be increase to 3–5 billion tonnes of CO2, which would bring a revenue of around 60–400 billion CNY.
See also Extinction Rebellion The Climate Mobilization Margaret Klein Salamon References External links Official website
and Exemptions for ports in Least-Developed Countries and Small Island Developing States, alongside carbon revenue use were proposed by Argentina and Norway during negotiations.
A consultation document was published alongside the 2007 Energy White Paper, and responses were invited by 15 August 2007.
It is a government agent under the charge of Tianjin SASAC and is the only appointed exchange authorized by Tianjin SASAC for state-owned assets and equities transaction.
NETT reported progress to CAF in December 2004, including the development of 10 key design propositions as a basis for further investigation and analysis of a NETS.
Verified Emission Reductions are usually created by projects which have been verified outside of the Kyoto Protocol.
Van Hollen Cap and Dividend Bill, 2009 Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.) put a bill before Congress on April 1, 2009, pertaining to carbon reductions and including the cap and dividend system.
The Rocky is also rebadged and sold under Toyota and Subaru brands as the Toyota Raize (Japanese: トヨタ・ライズ, Hepburn: Toyota Raizu) and Subaru Rex (Japanese: スバル・レックス, Hepburn: Subaru Rekkusu) respectively.
Methane emissions reduction in ruminants In 2014, researchers at CSIRO and James Cook University (supported by Meat & Livestock Australia) demonstrated that treating ruminal fluid with one to two percent red seaweed reduced their methane emissions by over 90 percent.
It required large businesses (defined as those with annual carbon dioxide equivalent emissions over 25,000 tonnes annually) to pay a price for emissions permits.
The Indian National Carbon Trading Scheme is a carbon emission trading scheme being developed by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency in India, which may start as a voluntary market in 2026.
References External links CEB Website Archived 2009-03-27 at the Wayback Machine VER Registry Archived 2013-04-29 at the Wayback Machine The VER+ Standard profile on database of Market Governance Mechanisms
Fallow period adjustments: Extending fallow periods or planting in barren areas to restore land productivity.
CDR involves techniques to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and is generally considered a form of climate change mitigation.
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
In March 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially nullify Obama's Clean Power Plan in an effort, it said, of reviving the coal industry.
The same year, Frontier buyers agreed the world’s first river-liming offtake with CarbonRun (US$25.4 million for 55,442 t CO2 to 2030).
Economically, inconsistent quota distribution led to fluctuating carbon prices, which in turn affected electricity prices and other sectors linked to energy production.
The Edogawatt is a form of emissions reduction currency used in Edogawa, Tokyo that is an initiative of the local Jōdo Shinshū Jukou-in temple.
Macquarie Generation, a Government of New South Wales owned electricity generator, wrote down the value of its assets by about A$1 billion as a result of the carbon tax.
External links World Carfree Network Car Busters magazine Carfree.com Manifesto for the Reorganisation of the City after COVID19 | author: Massimo Paolini [20 April 2020]
Carbon credits are beneficial exports to the economy as it helps with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions which can help improve the sustainability of natural habitats.
By the 2020s, the experience gained from the seven pilot ETS programmes contributed directly to the development and implementation of China's national Carbon Trading Scheme.
In 2011 the AETF formed the foundation of the new Carbon Market Institute, a not-for-profit institute, established in Melbourne, Australia to continue and develop the AETF programs.
Within the carbon capture and storage approaches, carbon sequestration refers to the storage component.
Description Carbon markets are carbon pricing mechanisms enabling governments and non-state actors to trade greenhouse gas emission credits.
Using co-product to generate electricity is one strategy that might improve the overall carbon balance.
TCR designs and operates voluntary and compliance greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting programs globally, and assists organizations in measuring, reporting and verifying the carbon in their operations in order to manage and reduce it.
Many companies are trying to achieve carbon offsets by nature-based solutions like reforestation, including mangrove forests and soil restoration.
On March 25, 2021, the Supreme Court of Canada rejected the 2019 appeal of the provinces of Alberta, Ontario, and Saskatchewan and ruled in Reference re Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act that the GHGPPA was constitutional.
It also emphasizes financial assistance from developed countries to developing countries to reduce emissions.
Environmental characteristics Source: Average slope gradient: 55% Aspect: the exclosure is oriented towards the west Minimum altitude: 2180 metres Maximum altitude: 2300 metres Lithology: Adigrat Sandstone Management As a general rule, cattle ranging and wood harvesting are not allowed.
At times, the passenger had to get out and walk alongside the car to see the kerb and operate the steering through the side window while the driver operated the pedals.
Some governments have found that the data produced by the climate action plan increases transparency and helps with longterm planning to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Mobile sources include vehicles that operate on roads and highways ("on-road" or "highway" vehicles), as well as nonroad vehicles, engines, and equipment.
A 2005 report suggested that British woodland soil may contain as much as 250 tonnes of carbon per hectare.
Critics Support Chatham House and Glasgow University, in a 2015 report titled "Changing Climate, Changing Diets: Pathways to Lower Meat Consumption" called for a tax on red meat.
Established in 2005, PATT attempts to raise environmental awareness and foster better practices in less developed nations around the world, planting trees as a means to combat deforestation and climate change.
However, with the election of Stephen Harper's Conservative Government in 2006, the One Tonne Challenge was scrapped.
One example of a Joint Implementation project resulting in an emission reduction unit, was the production of biogases by landfill sites.
Reception Media coverage described TSVCM as part of wider efforts to standardise a fragmented voluntary carbon market, and reporting highlighted disagreements among stakeholders over governance design and trading and eligibility rules.
They believe that such a level carries the risk of triggering a cascade of unpredictable climate feedback effects.
If exposed for an extended period of time the symptoms include cancer and damage to the central nervous system.
In January 2018, Yasa, an electric motor manufacturer based in Oxford, England, opened a new factory to produce 100,000 motors per year, using APC funding.
The company initially stated it would focus on carbon storage on marine ecosystems, known as Blue carbon.
More specifically, the predicted time is 1700 years for ocean and approximately 5000 to 6000 years for land.
Other efforts, such as fuel efficiency standards, or changing income tax rules on taxable benefits, may be more effective.
Removal Units were generated and issued by Kyoto Protocol Annex I Parties for carbon absorption by land use, land-use change, and forestry (LULUCF) activities such as reforestation.
Dubbed as "the first ink made out of recycled air pollution," its products were used in June 2016 in association with Heineken to create street art and murals in Hong Kong's Sheung Wan district.
These projects have collectively issued over 1.3 billion credits, with more than 776 million credits retired to date.
Nuclear power plants were closed, and the existing nine plants were scheduled to close earlier than planned, in 2022.
Five-year review A July 2013 report by Sustainable Prosperity, BC's Carbon Tax Shift After Five Years: An Environmental (and Economic) Success Story, suggested that the policy had been a major success.
Use by manufacturers of these devices is considered to have caused many deaths and health problems, a scandal referred to as "Dieselgate".
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
The Carbon Trust was conceived as a business-led, publicly funded organisation operating at arm's length from the UK government.
To close the gap between the two concepts, carbon pricing could put a cap on emissions, remove pollution from underserved communities, and justly divide revenues.
The Liberal Government under Jean Chrétien and Paul Martin approved over $45 million to fund the program from 2003 to 2006.
The group's mandate was to develop practical proposals on how to significantly scale-up long-term financing for mitigation and adaptation strategies in developing countries from various public as well as private sources.
They can also purchase credits from facilities whose emissions are below the 100,000-tonne threshold but are voluntarily reducing their emissions.
To promote this program, the government placed television and print ads featuring comedian Rick Mercer.
The 2021 Leaders' Summit on Climate was a virtual climate summit on April 22–23, 2021, organized by the Joe Biden administration, with leaders from various countries.
The current CEO is Josiane Sadaka, a British-educated brand manager for other companies owned by Sheikh Ahmed as well.
Disbursement No action is required to receive the credit; customers automatically receive a credit on their bill under the line item "California Climate Credit".
Sunshine Coast: Noosa Council have partnered with Translink to provide free buses within the Noosa Shire every weekend and during the busy Christmas and Easter Queensland school holidays.
These curves have been used for various public and private actors either to assess carbon policies or through the use of a carbon market analysis tool.
In 2024, Frontier announced multiple offtakes, including US$58.3 million with Vaulted Deep for 152,480 tons (2024–2027), US$48.6 million with Stockholm Exergi (BECCS) for deliveries in 2028–2030, and US$40 million with 280 Earth (DAC).
Andrei Illarionov also referred to a large number of works that cast doubt on the very idea of a "greenhouse" effect caused by the accumulation of carbon dioxide.
Companies have three ways to meet their reductions: they can make operating improvements, buy an Alberta-based credit, or contribute to the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund.
TM44 inspections, or Air Conditioning Energy Assessments (ACEA), are required by law in the United Kingdom under the Energy Performance of Buildings Regulations 2007, amended in 2011 and 2012.
As of June 2024, the coalition represents 178 individual states, regions, provinces and subnational governments along with several other national and subnational entities.
After the conference, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina stated that establishing a Multi Donor Trust Fund is part of her government's response to climate change.
Outside the UNFCCC system, the AGF report is extensively referenced in climate financing discussions at the G20, European Union, International Maritime Organization, and other international forums.
The Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport of the European Commission has described it as "a delicate compromise between all involved in its elaboration".
They are typically supported by a body of readily available or explicitly commissioned data sets provided by various independent or industry-related organizations.
The cap is typically placed on 'upstream' sources – like fossil fuel suppliers – to cover the carbon content of the fuels they distribute.
Remarkably, also in the well-protected eucalypt plantation there is some undergrowth and soil development.
The CDM is designed to start developing countries off on a path towards less pollution, with industrialised (Annex B) countries paying for the reductions.
By enforcing these inspections, the UK government encourages businesses to be more energy efficient and promotes a more sustainable approach to air conditioning.
These supported nationally appropriate mitigation actions will be subject to international measurement, reporting and verification in accordance with guidelines adopted by the Conference of the Parties.
Benefits for the community Setting aside such areas fits with the long-term vision of the communities, where hiza’iti lands are set aside for use by the future generations.
'Slaughter tax' and 'carcass tax' are terms that are considered to make such a change in food taxation more popular with the general public.
Conversion efficiency of energy production Losses are incurred when energy is harvested from the natural resource from which it is derived, such as fossil fuels, radioactive materials, solar radiation or other sources.
Economic forecasts used to oppose climate legislation The economic consultancy Charles River Associates produced forecasts showing a negative impact on employment of the Act.
Energy efficiency was a lower priority when energy was cheap and awareness of its environmental impact was low.
References External links Design of the Energy Company Obligation (ECO): 2023-2026 gov.uk Apply for support from the Great British Insulation Scheme gov.uk Companies you can apply for GBIS (Great Britain insulation scheme)
The association manages exclosures (land protected from grazing) with the intent of improving the ecosystem and sequestering carbon.
Disadvantages of hydrogen as a fuel include high costs of storage and distribution due to hydrogen's explosivity, its large volume compared to other fuels, and its tendency to make pipes brittle.
Controversies A 2021 study by The Guardian newspaper and Unearthed reported that Verra's carbon offsetting standard was flawed.
It calls for fossil fuel divestment and phase-out of use with a just transition to a low-carbon economy.
The petition is a registered European Citizens' Initiative, so if it reaches 1 million signatures, the topic will be placed on the agenda of the European Commission, and will be considered to form a legislative proposal.
A high discount rate on emissions reductions or carbon sequestration incentivizes cutting emissions earlier.
External links Media related to Carbon capture and storage at Wikimedia Commons IEA database Zero Emissions Platform - technical adviser to the EU Commission on the deployment of CCS and CCU
30% of the allowances will be allocated directly to local distribution companies (LDCs) who are mandated to use them exclusively for the benefit of customers.
The Plan would involve a redistribution equivalent to 1.2% of global GDP, transferred from the 29% of the population with a carbon footprint above the global average to the 71% with a lower carbon footprint.
Required reporting entities had to submit documentation to the Department of Ecology that showed they had compliance instruments (allowances or offsets) covering at least 30% of their 2023 emissions.
China pledged to reduce emission intensity by up to 65% by 2030—an increase from its earlier commitment of up to 45%—while also aiming to reach peak emissions around the same period.
The report consisted of minority reports from the New Zealand Labour Party, the Green Party, the Māori Party and the ACT Party.
ETS knowledge sharing ICAP acts as a knowledge sharing hub, disseminating information on existing and planned ETS, as well as the general benefits and design aspects of an ETS.
The expansion of settlements and transport infrastructure is to be reduced to 30 ha per day by 2020 and to zero by 2050.
The AETF was founded to assist all potential stakeholders understand and respond to emissions trading developments both domestically and internationally.
They state that the Protocol will be revised in order to meet this objective, as is required by UNFCCC Article 4.2(d).
Most of the core UNFCCC decisions that define REDD+ were adopted between 2010 and 2015, including the Warsaw Framework on REDD-plus (2013).
They can reduce their carbon emissions (their "carbon footprint") through capital investment, projects and demand reduction.
Political feasibility and challenges Theoretical analysis of a supply-side climate treaty suggests that 'distributive conflict' remains a primary obstacle to its effectiveness.
The Program of Activities (PoA) under the Clean Development Mechanism is regarded a precedor of a future NAMA mechanism and already operational.
History The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) was founded in 2017 by 16 countries and 32 cities, inspired by Bhutan.
Observers of the accord are Indiana, Ohio, and South Dakota, as well as the Canadian Province of Ontario.
Planting and protecting these trees would sequester 205 billion tons of carbon if the trees survive future climate stress to reach maturity.
However, Uruguay still has opportunities for improvement on the demand side of energy use: fossil fuels account for about 40 % of the country's total energy consumption, with the transport and industrial sectors being the main contributors.
Toyota Raize The Toyota-badged model is sold and marketed as the Toyota Raize in Japan and most international markets.
Compared to other emissions reductions instruments Emissions reduction currency is different from an emissions credit.
Las Vegas, Nevada: Resort shuttle and trams are free, Mandalay Bay Tram, Aria Express and Hard Rock-Treasure Island Tram.
These routes don't have any intermediate stops except for the "Bird market" and a stop near Mega trade center (about from 15:00).
The Under2 MOU allows subnational governments such as cities, counties and states to highlight their work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
In December 2012, ERU prices crashed to a low of 15c before recovering to 23c after news that EU’s Climate Change Committee was to vote on a ban of ERUs from countries that have not signed up to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol.
Ontario's Environment Minister Rod Phillips and Attorney General Caroline Mulroney announced a $30 million plan on August 2, 2018, to challenge the constitutionality of the GHGPPA in the Court of Appeal for Ontario.
See also Carbon offset Global warming Ecosia Forestle List of search engines References External links Official website
Further outcry came after it was revealed in The Guardian that the majority of civil servants who wrote the plan don't even live in the North or Midlands.
The team later formed the VCS Steering Committee, which worked to draft the second and subsequent versions of the VCS Standard.
The reserve would operate on predefined rules with no discretion for the commission or Member States.
This process (CO2-to-stone) occurs naturally over periods of years and is responsible for much surface limestone.
If the future were known with certainty, then the economic implications of Cap and Share would equal the economic implications of a carbon tax with lump sum recycling—that is, the carbon tax revenue would be used to send every household a cheque in the post.
The rock type (Amba Aradam Sandstone and Antalo Limestone), slope gradient and slope aspect were the same, the only difference was the land management and vegetation density.
In addition to the main report, they published eight different work streams paper, providing technical information and analysis for each finance source.
The deployment of renewable energy can generate co-benefits of climate change mitigation: positive socio-economic effects on employment, industrial development, health and energy access.
outperformed the rest of the country." This illustrated that the carbon tax benefits were "no longer theoretical" and did not hinder economic growth.
As noted by Professor Ross Garnaut in his "Review" for the Australian Government, the rate of convergence serves as a crucial equity mechanism in the negotiations.
The Great British Insulation Scheme (GBIS) was an initiative launched by the UK government to enhance efficient energy use in residential properties.
The report developed under the leadership of Ottmar Edenhofer evaluates the global potential for using renewable energy to mitigate climate change.
Depending on the country and the deployment scenario, replacing coal power plants can more than double the number of jobs per average MW capacity.
The exterior received minor makeover with a mesh grille, different alloy wheels with 5 lugs, blue accent on Daihatsu's badges and "e-Smart Hybrid" badge on the tailgate to distinguish it from the conventional petrol models.
See also Air pollution Chlorofluorocarbons Recycling References External links Government of Canada - One-Tonne Challenge Archived 2004-04-03 at the Wayback Machine Yukon News - Conservatives Nix One Tonne Challenge
Since then the market for sustainability management services has grown in line with the need for private and public sector organisations to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, in response to new climate change legislation and the imperative for voluntary action.
Carbon market Kyoto provides for a 'cap and trade' system which imposes national caps on the emissions of annex I countries.
See also CEB VER Verified Carbon Standard CDM Gold Standard Certified Emission Reduction == References ==
Unlike past versions of RETScreen, however, a new "Professional mode" (which allows users to save and print, as well as to access premium features) is now available on an annual subscription basis.
Measures include additional support for clean transport, renewable energy, and a tariff called the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism on emissions for high-carbon imports from countries lacking sufficient greenhouse gas reduction measures of their own.
Carbon leakage Carbon leakage is the effect that regulation of emissions in one country/sector has on the emissions in other countries/sectors that are not subject to the same regulation.
In October 2014 the European Council endorsed a binding European Union target of an at least 40% reduction in domestic greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 relative to 1990 (less stringent than Germany).
History Since at least 2008, public figures like environmental analyst Lester Brown, former vice president Al Gore, author and energy expert Joseph J.
The Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) was a voluntary, legally binding greenhouse gas reduction and trading system for emission sources and offset projects in North America and Brazil.
Joint Implementation (JI) is one of three flexibility mechanisms set out in the Kyoto Protocol to help countries with binding greenhouse gas emissions targets (the Annex I countries) meet their treaty obligations.
28,828 units of the Raize (produced from 1 December 2021 until 15 July 2024) were affected by the recall.
In September 2019 at the UN Climate Summit, it was announced that 5 new countries were joining the coalition: Austria, Chile, Italy, Japan and Timor-Leste.
The rock type (basalt), slope gradient and slope aspect were the same, the only difference was the land management and vegetation density.
In the 2015 Autumn Statement, the Chancellor, George Osborne, announced that an additional £225 million budget for automotive research and development would be facilitated by the APC.
In Canada, 2008–09 BCHydro offers $3 /MWh for "green attributes", for long-term contracts, 20 plus years.
BMW was sued in 2018 when certain models were named as producing several times more nitrogen oxide emissions than laboratory tests indicated.
Through these schemes, industries and individuals voluntarily compensate for their emissions or provide an additional contribution to mitigating climate change.
She argued that a principles-based benchmark would need rigorous, credit-type-specific assessment and resourcing to reliably screen out over-crediting, and she raised concerns about baseline setting and other methodological choices that could systematically inflate credited reductions.
The blood-spattered teacher then goes on casually to explain the night's homework to her horrified charges.
The city council has the authority to increase the tax after the first year up to a maximum permitted tax rate of $0.0049/kWh for residential customers; $0.0009/kWh for commercial customers; and $0.0003/kWh for industrial customers.
In the European Union Emission Trading Scheme, EU Emission Allowances permit holders to emit a specified amount of carbon dioxide.
That gives him new stature as an environmental leader, and it eloquently confirms the five years and millions of hours of work that people of every kind put into this fight." In response, proponent TC Energy filed a US$15 billion lawsuit under NAFTA's Chapter 11.
The name Texas Tommy was derived from the dance with the same name, which, around 1910, was the first social dance to feature a breakaway step, from which the swingout developed.
The two would have a longer rematch with Smoorenburg playing a character resembling Bryan Fury against Fung's Iron Surfer, who resembled Hwoarang in the Tekken-inspired film The Avenging Fist in 2001.
The couple moves diagonally to the center (DC) and then diagonally to the wall (DW), thus sweeping a V-shape on the floor.
Arabesque pliée Schorer says the arabesque pliée "is good to build strength in your legs to control the rate of descent to hold your body up when you land".
In traditional hatha yoga in the 18th and 19th centuries, the Vyayāmadipike, which calls it the "second gardam", and the Śrītattvanidhi use the handstand in a sequence involving touching the nose to the ground; the Haṭhābhyāsapaddhati calls this Syenasana, meaning hawk pose.
If danced in a large group, two dancers will separate and come together to perform a mock duel, featuring jumping and ducking movements where one dancer aims for the head and the other aims for the lower legs.
His footage from 'Out for Fame' in 1999 sent shockwaves through Europe and Korea where many found influence in Nightcrawler's combinations and dynamic movement.
Other skills involve partial handsprings, such as the Onodi, which is a back handspring with a half twist in the first flight phase to a front walkover after the gymnast is in handstand.
The group is usually headed by a leader called Asan or chief around whom the rest of the dancers perform or who sings and chimes bells from the sidelines.
A fleckerl (Austrian German: a square-shaped noodle or a rag) is a dance step, most commonly found in the Viennese waltz.
Modern theatrical medieval-style jousting competitions are popular at American Renaissance fairs and similar festivals, and feature riders on horseback attempting various feats of skill with the lance, which may not always have a basis in history.
Battles in film are not inhibited by such restrictions, due to the possibilities of cutting and closeup.
In 2005, students from the Helsinki University of Technology developed a system that translates hand movements into electric guitar sounds, resulting in a functional air guitar.
The Rugova war dance (Albanian: Vallja me shpata e Rugovës or Loja Luftarake e Rugovës) is a traditional Albanian war dance named after the Rugova region in Kosovo.
Pike - A freeze with one hand planted on the ground while the entire body is perpendicular to the floor with both feet held high to the air.
The rivalry between the Crips and the Bloods spilled over into the world of entertainment, with the adoption of the gang dance by various rappers on the West Coast of the United States, who gave it its name, the Crip Walk.
Any art created that was created post-1868, such as Judo, Karate, Aikido, Taidō, are considered to be Gendai budō.
Cuban motion is a stylized dance movement characterized by a rhythmic rotation of the hips around the spine, caused by the bending and straightening of the knees (though the knees remain "soft"—slightly bent—at all times).
The float or turtle is a b-boying move in which breakdancers turn on their hands with their body horizontal to the floor.
The total upward momentum must be sufficient to keep the performer aloft while the lower body completes its rotation about the torso.
Without stopping after step 3 lower your right hand and use your right leg to force your body upwards into the air, while you are in the air shift your weight onto your right hand while twisting your torso.
Classical choreography The "Shades scene" from La Bayadère, choreographed by Marius Petipa, is one of the masterpieces of classical style.
In non-human animals Some quadrupeds are able to walk bipedally on their forelimbs, thus performing "hand" walking in an anthropomorphic sense.
"The third Method is quite the Reverse, because, instead of the Bouree, the Half Coupee is made first and afterwards the Bouree, or as the French term it, One and a Fleuret, which is usually called the French Step" (Tomlinson 1735, 104).
This term is used primarily in earlier styles of taekwondo, often referred to as traditional taekwondo.
Police In 2003, the police restricted access to the bridge to attempt to prevent the fight from happening, and ended up being targeted by the participants instead.
As this happens, the arms are brought together away from the chest and spotting technique is employed so that the dancer's head faces the direction of travel as much as possible.
When it looked as if he would disappear from everyone's sight, the whole frenzied procession halted, the song died away, the music faded, and the dancing contingent froze suddenly and unexpectedly.
Scarlet Blade Theatre was a theatre company based in London, England, specialising in acting, advanced stage combat, physical theatre and other performance skills including horse riding and martial arts.
Scottish courtiers performed a sword dance for Anne of Denmark and Beaumont, the French ambassador, at Hampton Court on 6 January 1604.
For instance, in line dancing or folk dances, there exists a step sequence referred to as the "three step".
Jackhammers are often faster, and the free hand is usually placed on the back or in some other position that clearly shows control with the centered hand.
The Ayesha is an advanced pole dance position, where the dancer suspends their body weight with two hands in an inverted position, and opens their legs in a V facing the pole.
Hundreds of people attended the event; the German newspaper Die Welt reported in 2008 that there were 800 participants.
Gymnastics There are two basic handstand styles in modern gymnastics: curved-back and straight-back.
Overall, the goal is distinct style within the organization focused more on the civilian dueling styles of the 14th, 15th and 16th century.
Both hands remain on the floor while the body revolves backward through a handstand position, until the foot of the leading leg, followed by the foot of the trailing leg, reach the floor.
It is used in activities such as breakdancing, acro dance, gymnastics, martial arts (specifically kung fu), professional wrestling, and freerunning, and in action film fight sequences.
Early life and education Hobbs was born in 1939 in Hampstead, London, the son of Kenneth and Joan (née Kerlindsay).
Social aspects Charles Darwin theorized on the link between tickling and social relations, arguing that tickling provokes laughter through the anticipation of pleasure.
Impressed with his kicking skills, Chan hired him to play one of two final opponents in which Chan would film the fight on the roof of the Willemswerf Building.
From that position straighten your left leg and sweep it around your right, when it passes in front of your body shift your weight from your right hand to your left hand.
A shimmy or shoulder shakes is a dance move in which the body is held still, except for the shoulders, which are quickly alternated back and forth.
X – swipes – Swipes with legs crossed Baby Swipe – Essentially a footwork move, often launched from the 6-step, that employs a twist of the hips similar to the swipe.
It has since become one of his recurring party tricks and is now commonly associated with Fassbender's public persona.
The Crip Walk, also known as the C-Walk, is a dance move that was created in the 1970s by first generation Crip members as a method of expression and communication, and has since spread worldwide without its linguistic aspects.
History of the Scottish sword dance Origins Gillidh Callum was a figure in Scottish apocryphal folk belief, said to be Noah's bagpiper.
See also Glossary of dance moves Glossary of ballet Glossary of belly dance terms Sprinkler (dance) == References ==
It "is composed of four plain straight Steps or Walks, and may be performed forwards, backward, sideways, &c." (Tomlinson 1735, 103) or in a square.
Acro shoes are called jazz boots, jazz ankle boots, jazz booties and other names, by their various manufacturers.
Combat rules Codex Belli Early Medieval Alliance [3] Equipment Since the 1990s, an increasing number of companies offers replicas of historical arms and armour.
Airchair - A chair freeze without the head or feet on the floor, usually facing the ceiling, with leeway for many leg variations.
When one tries to tickle oneself by grabbing one's sides, the brain foresees this contact between body and hand and prepares itself for it.
Other companies require an acro routine to have exactly, or more than, fifty percent acrobatic content.
As with other physical skills, one must practice hand walking in order to become proficient and develop adequate endurance.
"Social Dance: An Overview of the Collection: An American Ballroom Companion: Dance Instruction Manuals, ca.
The step travels to the woman's right (the man's left), without turning.The man's steps are the converse of the woman's, he starting with his left foot.
In a martial arts context, the aerial cartwheel is visually interesting but of little value to combatants.
In other schools, students may be required to wait a few months, for safety reasons, because they must first build the skills they would ideally employ in their sparring practice.
Learning the proper technique Learning the proper technique and taking classes to learn about the skill reduces the chance of acquiring an injury.
Yoga In modern yoga as exercise, the handstand is among the inverted poses; it is known as Adho Mukha Vrksasana, Downward-facing Tree Pose.
Barani, also known as a free round-off, in which legs are brought together in mid-air, landing on both feet.
The most common variations are known as a right Temani (or Yemenite right), and left Temani (or Yemenite left).
Another early moonwalker was popper and singer Jeffrey Daniel, who moonwalked in a performance of Shalamar's "A Night to Remember" on Top of the Pops in the UK in 1982 and was known to perform backslides in public performances (including weekly Soul Train episodes) as far back as 1974.
Although the raw egg he threw only hit the officer's leg and caused no pain, the secondary school student found himself in the justice system for the first time over the incident.
Turtle AirFlares/Criticals - This move is considered a combination of an AirFlare, and a Cricket; however this move is performed during a turtle/handglide freeze.
Sword and shields can be found in battle scenes like in Shakespeare's Wars of the Roses history plays.
Classes and workshops are also held across the UK and are open to the public and other actor/combatants.
It is popular in Shakespeare plays like Romeo and Juliet and Hamlet where duels are performed and can be used in combination with a dagger.
Non-striking surfaces (such as quillons and basket hilts) may be made of rigid materials like metal, rubber, or plastic.
Once you have these steps down you should combine steps two and three and do the moves simultaneously.
See also Triple step (music) Waltz Two-step (dance move) References External links 3 Step/3 Walk dance on Youtube
Leader Follower Preceding and following figures Possible preceding figures: Anything ending with leader's weight on left foot, backing diagonal centre - such as: "SQQ" of the quarter turns Natural spin turn (SQQSSS) ending DC, the last S being the first S of the V6.
It is seen as a "basic feature of many dances imported to Brazil and Portugal from the Congo-Angola region", for example, samba, fandango, batuque, creole drum.
Gregory proposed that the most ticklish places on the body were also those areas that were the most vulnerable during hand-to-hand combat.
Korean martial arts with Japanese influence (hapkido, Tang Soo Do) use the derived term hyeong (hanja: 形) and also the term pumsae (hanja: 品勢 hangeul: 품새).
In the whisk the crossing foot travels around the standing foot, rather than "locks" from the direction of approach.
Above the AirPiano is an invisible matrix of virtual keys plus faders, each pre-assigned with MIDI messages and waiting to be triggered, via infrared sensors.
An acrobatic flip is a sequence of body movements in which a person leaps into the air and rotates one or more times while airborne.
Historical martial arts demonstrations Demonstration of historical fencing begins with Alfred Hutton in the 1890s.
Although "Gemüseschlacht" means 'vegetable battle' and "Wasserschlacht" means 'water battle', participants were not restricted to only using vegetables or water.
"The Texas Shuffle step was formerly called a foxtrot step and has erroneously been called Texas Two-Step.
An important concentration of traditional sword dances can be found on the Italian side of the western Alps.
Figures were a widespread feature of Western social dances in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, and typically involved multiple dancers creating formations and patterns.
It is known as a "Sentai move" in Japan, from its popular use in the 1970s' Super Sentai and Kamen Rider tokusatsu superhero series (localised as Power Rangers and Masked Rider in the 1990s).
The linear momentum of the thrust carries the body into the air feet first while the angular momentum causes the airborne body to rotate.
In taekwondo, taegeuk is a set of Pumsae (also known as Poomsae or Poomse), or defined pattern of defense-and-attack forms used to teach taekwondo.
It received good reviews from The Scotsman and a "Critics Choice" award from the British Theatre Guide.
Karate The most popular image associated with kata is that of a karate practitioner performing a series of punches and kicks in the air.
At first the prisoner forced himself to keep silent, while his eyes twitched in fear and torment from one SS man to the other.
"And": Slightly push off the floor by the ball of the left foot behind or by the right foot (partial weight transfer).
For a strike to the leg or foot, the fencer can continue fighting but must kneel, sit on the ground, or balance on one leg.
A war dance is a dance involving mock combat, usually in reference to tribal warrior societies where such dances were performed as a ritual connected with endemic warfare.
Movements of the robot are normally started and finished with a dimestop (a very abrupt stop), to give the impression of motors starting and stopping, but poppers have also been known to do the robot with a pop to the beat.
Modern usage of kata is as a teaching tool to learn strike techniques, attack intervals, body movement, sincerity and kigurai (pride).
The basic step, basic figure, basic movement, basic pattern, or simply basic is the dance move that defines the character of a particular dance.
It is a distinct element of a number of East Slavic dances, such as Ukrainian Kozachok and Hopak or Russian Barynya and Kamarinskaya.
It is documented that large war parties of the Bororo, Kayapo, Munduruku, Guaraní and Tupi people conducted long-distance raids across the interior of Brazil.
It is a popular dance style in amateur competitive dance as well as in professional dance theater and in contemporary circus productions such as those by Cirque du Soleil.
It is nonetheless common to use music not particularly suited for the dance, but which has a "robot theme".
As teaching aid Kata were originally used to preserve the techniques and history of kenjutsu for future generations.
The hand used for the stand is the "standing hand" and the leg on the same side of the body is the "standing leg." The other pair of appendages are the "free" hand and leg.
Outer turn: On counts 7–8, the lead brings the follow forward, but blocks on the 1, leading to and outer turn or double turn, which returns to open position on the 7.
Karate, although preceding 1868, does not qualify as koryū due to the fact it did not evolve in Japan but on the Ryukyu Islands (modern Okinawa Prefecture) which did not become a part of Japan until the 17th century.
Thus a "headstand freeze" is done with only the breaker's head touching the ground, and so forth for handstand, forearm, elbow, and shoulder freezes.
Gilda Gray attributed to American Indians in a 1919 interview with Variety saying: "You may not believe it but the original shimmy dance has never been properly introduced in New York.
He sees jacking as a reflection of this abandonment of subjectivity: “In disco, dance had gradually shed its role as courtship ritual and opened up into unpaired freestyle self-expression.
The dance can range from tame and slow to wildly acrobatic with flips within a single performance as the pace is dictated by the rhythm of the music.
The closeness of the feet so that the lower legs of the dancer are "locked" together crossed is the main difference from other cross-steps used, e.g., in the grapevine, where the moving (crossing) foot travels away from the standing foot and the lower legs are separated.
Because of this widespread view, splits appear in slapstick comedy, schadenfreude, and other forms of entertainment.
Examples Box step, the basic move in some American style ballroom dances: rumba and arguably waltz and bronze-level foxtrot.
A human pyramid is an acrobatic formation of three or more people in which two or more people support a tier of higher people, who in turn may support other, higher tiers of people.
One variation of the jump colloquially called the "Plisetakaya head kick" after Bolshoi prima ballerina assoluta Maya Plisetskaya is a jump with the front leg tilted downward and a full backbend.
Buddha - Similar to Air Turtles except that the knees are kept locked together and behind the arms, shins parallel to the floor, back as parallel to the floor as possible.
However, paintings and engravings by French artist Jean-Léon Gérôme (who visited Egypt in the 18th century) show sword dancers balancing sabers on their heads.
Straight-back style is employed when the aesthetics of straight body lines are desired and feasible.
as part of a North American college fraternity hazing ritual, or in a variation called a spanking pyramid, suitable as a collective punishment, in which the pledges, often divested, are paddled on the conveniently protruded posterior.
Armstand dives—a category found in competitive platform diving—are dives that begin with a handstand.
Cross chassé: a chassé in which the free foot is placed on the ice crossing behind the skating foot when skating forward, or in front when skating backward.
In the first arabesque, the dancer stands in effacé position – with the left foot in front – with the right leg raised in arabesque, the right arm extended to the side, to the audience, and the left arm extended front, towards the corner.
Standing split or vertical split, in which the leg lines are oriented vertically either to the side or to the front.
Cinematic fight choreography or staged fights in cinema include performances of archery, classical fencing, historical fencing, martial arts, close combat, and duels in general, as well as choreography of full-scale battles with hundreds of combatants.
All basic gymnastic handstands have these characteristics: Straight arms with hands placed on the ground approximately shoulder-width apart.
The main objective here is to try out different combinations of techniques in a safe environment to ultimately find out how to defeat your opponent.
The radius and ulna are held perpendicular to the ground with the weight of the body on either side of the point of contact kept in perfect balance.
Fleckerls are danced clockwise or counter-clockwise (natural or reverse), and the basic shape lasts for six steps (two three-note bars).
Accomplished breakers may stab to begin the windmill, but they will perform subsequent rotations unstabbed (sometimes called a "forearm mill").
Similar customs were known to the Dugum Dani and the Chimbu of New Guinea, the Nuer of Sudan and the North American Plains Indians.
Groups also compete, under supervision, in group battles which may approximate historically real combat, using SCA approved safe weapons.
Ethnic dances A Native American pivot turn, as described by Bessie and May Evans (1931), is performed standing on the ball of one foot and tapping with the other foot, accompanied with small turns on the standing foot with each tap.
instead of making a bridge you crunch in your face to your legs so it makes a v shapes as in to "invert" the hollowback.
The fighting is a full-speed, near full-force, full-contact competition between two or more combatants, designed to resemble medieval combat dueling or melees of up to 2000 participants.
David Arquette, as a wrestler, has used the worm dance ending with a standing elbow drop finisher in WCW and later on in the independent circuit.
In this move a subject lies prone position and forms a rippling motion through their body, creating a wave reminiscent of earthworm locomotion.
Popular culture Many people lack the flexibility required to execute a split and thus regard splits to be uncomfortable or even painful.
History Engolo, an Angolan martial art considered as ancestor art of capoeira, using multiple cartwheel kicks, including aú batido, as part of its offensive repertoire.
Jackson has been credited as renaming the "backslide" as the moonwalk and it became his signature move.
Well-known kicklines are formed by the New York Rockettes and the ensemble of Berlin's Friedrichstadt-Palast.
A person who has assumed a split position is said to be "in a split", or "doing the splits", or "doing a split" (this form is especially encountered in the Eastern United States).
There are many variations of form and performance of splits, including: Oversplit, in which the angle between the legs exceeds 180 degrees.
The Reverse Suicide involves a back hand spring or back flip landing on the knees first then back == References ==
Get down is a stance, posture or movement in many traditional African cultures and throughout the African diaspora.
Gus Giordano describes the position as the "palm of the hand facing forward with fingers stretched".
As well as television & theatre, his work extends as far as video games; Notably, he was the Fight/Combat consultant for the best-selling Xbox 360 game Fable 2 from Lionhead Studios.
In September 2023, Manchester City winger Jérémy Doku celebrated by doing the Griddy after he scored the equaliser against West Ham.
In dance, headroll is an intentional roll of the head around in a semi- or full circle at the end of a turn.
The move leaves the dancer in a position similar to the fourth step of the 6-step, but facing 180 degrees in the opposite direction.
The legs travel over the body trunk while one or both hands are on the floor, and then the feet return to the floor one at a time, ending with the athlete standing upright.
Sexual activity The pelvic thrust is used during copulation by many species of mammals, including humans, or for other sexual activities (such as non-penetrative sex).
For Olympic-style taekwondo sparring, participants should wear chest protectors, headgear, shin protectors, instep protectors, forearm protectors, and mouthguards.
Another study found that handbalancers who were also expert gymnasts had better coordination than those at an intermediate level of gymnastics.
The roundoff is a gymnastic technique that turns horizontal speed into vertical speed and can be used to turn forward impulse from a run into backwards impulse.
Kekisheva, who is now a coach with the Mariinsky ballet, has said that "Vaganova's method is dissipating, and working in the classical repertoire has become more difficult".
The closed Telemark can be followed by a natural turn, natural spin turn, hesitation change, or forward lock.
It was used by Crips at parties to display affiliation, particularly vis-a-vis rival gang the Bloods.
It became popular around the world when American singer Michael Jackson performed the move during the performance of "Billie Jean" on Motown 25: Yesterday, Today, Forever, which was broadcast in 1983; he later incorporated it in tours and live performances.
These kata are performed in tournaments and include gymnastics related elements, such as backflips, cartwheels, and splits.
Strength training and stretching helps develop the structure prior to trying the exercise to make the performance easier.
They usually end with the breaker perfectly still, enhancing the image that they have injured themselves.
Generally, the hands do not touch the floor during the execution of a flip, and performers typically aim to land on their feet in an upright position; however, this is not required for the move to be considered a flip.
One of the film's protagonists Edward 'Eddie' Smith, played by Frankie Darro, performs a Headspin at the 67 minute mark.
In rock forward, the dancer steps forward with full weight transfer then transfers the weight to the back foot while keeping it in place.
Nelson George said that Jackson's rendition "combined Jackie Wilson's athleticism with James Brown's camel walk".
Skills and technique Hand walking is a skill that relies on a prerequisite ability to perform handstands, which in turn requires adequate upper body pressing strength in the deltoids and triceps as well as a heightened sense of balance and spatial awareness.
Cushioning is especially important when a Marley floor is unavailable, because uncovered performance surfaces have no cushioning whatsoever and thus may be extremely hard and unyielding.
A combative sword dance called the Highland Dirk Dance still exists and is often linked to the sword dance or dances called "Macinorsair" (Mac an Fhòrsair), the "Broad Sword Exercise" or the "Bruicheath" (Battle Dance).
Roboting gained fame in the 1970s after Michael Jackson used the dance when he performed "Dancing Machine" with his brothers.
This is done by anchoring the shoulders and scapula downward without tension, with shoulders perpendicular to the direction the dancer is facing.
The left hands are held in front of the lead's waist; the right hands are held in front of the follow's waist.
In 1914, acrobat Lulu Coates formed the Crackerjacks, a popular vaudeville troupe that included acrobatic dance in their performance repertoire up until the group disbanded in 1952.
In 1958, Mexican dancer-comedian Adalberto Martinez "Resortes" also performed the moonwalk in the film Colegio de Verano ("Summer School").
One of the things that characterize an organization's culture is its kata – its routines of thinking and practice.
This set of default armour balances valid blow/hit levels and helps to eliminate differences created by the armour combatants are actually wearing.
Consequently, splits are often used as a stretching exercise to warm up and enhance the flexibility of leg muscles.
The hands are then pushed against the floor, causing the body to lift off from the floor while the body continues its feet-first rotation.
The rules of curtsying in such contexts vary depending on country, rank, and the specific expectations of each royal household.
Dance description The dance involves a series of rapid, exaggerated movements starting with the dancer bending their knees and pumping their arms in a criss-cross pattern.
Typically, the number of people in each tier is one greater than the tier immediately above it, resulting in a triangular structure reminiscent of the formation's namesake.
Normally it uses a split-beat count: 1&2 or 1a2 and has a syncopated feeling, i.e., the accent of the motion is on "two".
This tickling relationship continues throughout childhood and often into the early to mid teen years.
On February 10, 2024, Jake Walman while playing for the Detroit Red Wings did the Griddy after scoring an overtime shootout winner against the Vancouver Canucks.
There are a number of armourers that supply the SCA and other living history groups, but many make their own armour, while some participants may import armour from overseas.
The Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing (ISTD) syllabus considers the fourth step that aligns the man with the lady into a normal dance position to be part of the feather step variation, while the International Dance Teachers Association (IDTA) syllabus does not.
Martial arts split is a front split in which the back leg is rotated so the inside edge of the foot rests on the ground.
Because of their thin, pliable leather uppers and split soles, acro shoes have excellent flexibility, thus enabling dancers to attain both good dance form and acrobatic control.
It is a dance in which the dancer moves their limbs in a way that imitates the movements of a robot.
Bokuto Ni Yoru Kendo Kihon-waza Keiko-ho Bokuto Ni Yoru Kendo Kihon-waza Keiko-ho is a new form of bokken training that is directly translatable to bogu kendo.
It is also mentioned in "Time Warp", a song from The Rocky Horror Show, as a part of the choreography associated with the warp itself.
With the advent of cinema and television the term has widened to also include the choreography of filmed fighting sequences, as opposed to the earlier live performances on stage.
This variation is often used at the beginning of combinations with other elements and involves less force on the gymnast's arms after making hand contact with the beam.
For example, the novel With Fire and Sword by Henryk Sienkiewicz in several places describes how people were dancing w prysiudach, including the jovial character Onufry Zagłoba.
India During the Hindu festival Krishna Janmashtami in Maharashtra, young men form human pyramids to reach pots filled with curd and butter and suspended high above the ground as part of the Dahi Handi ritual.
The Italian town of Arezzo continues to hold an annual jousting tournament, which dates to the Crusades..
In some SMR dojos, new students begin their kata training by learning one or more kata from the Seitei Jodo-curriculum due to their relative technical simplicity.
Giorio in the Susa valley, where the so-called "Spadonari" (sword-holders) dance is still performed between the end of January and the beginning of February.
The video showed Nunes as well as a French b-boy who executed a move very similar to the modern airflare.
Although the term "v-shape" is used, the degree of the split is directed correlated with how the windmill performs overall.
The man holds the lady's left hand by his right hand at approximately the shoulder level, the joined arms are bent in the elbows.
It had been rumored that Jeffrey Daniel taught Jackson the moonwalk; however, Daniel was touring with Shalamar at the time, so Jackson reached out to Soul Train dancer/employee Cheryl Song to arrange a meeting with dancer Geron "Caszper" Canidate.
In class practice, the arms are always level with the shoulders – arabesque de classe, whereas in performance the arm in front may be raised above shoulder level – arabesque de scene.
with the state possible conception might have occurred, state of residence (if different) and possible states the mother might visit, or relocate to after the possible conception date that also have putative father registries.
Kalantry is the author of Court on Trial: A Data-Driven Account of the Indian Supreme Court (2022), and Women’s Human Rights and Migration: Sex-Selective Abortion Laws in the United States and India (2017).
The government agency responsible for enforcing child-birth limits, the National Population and Family Planning Commission, was dissolved in 2013, 8 years prior.
Legacy This action was a landmark moment in the Irish women's movement: it helped break the "taboo against discussing contraceptive practice." It also made a "powerful statement" which raised awareness of the issue surrounding women and contraception.
Children have been treated as persons with respect to bodily offences, beginning with Offences against the Person Act 1828, although this protection did not prevent parents from selling their children, as in the Eliza Armstrong case, long after the slave trade had been abolished in England.
Abortion clinics have also been targeted by acid attacks, invasions, and vandalism The majority of abortion opponents have not been involved in violent acts.
was passed in the European parliament by way of the Sandbæk Report authored by Ulla Sandbæk in 2003.
Similar causes of action Wrongful life Wrongful life is a legal cause of action in which a congenitally-diseased child sues the doctor, claiming that but for the negligence of the doctor, the child would not have been born into a life of pain and suffering.
Goodwin contextualizes the contemporary policing of reproduction within the history of American slavery and contends that women's bodies are treated as property by the American state.
Indeed, in orangutans, close human relatives, such copulations constitute up to half of observed matings.
In August a coalition of groups, including the CRR, filed suit in Oklahoma to block enforcement of a law that restricts access to emergency contraception, stating that the law is unconstitutional.
As an example, in Chicago, a group known as "Jane" operated a floating abortion clinic throughout much of the 1960s.
Conflict with evictionism Where departurism and evictionism differ is in their understanding of what gentleness ought to look like when it is properly applied to situations of trespass within the womb.
"The Duty to Defend Advertising Injuries Caused by Junk Faxes: An Analysis of Privacy, Spam, Detection and Blackmail".
The protest On Saturday, 22 May 1971 the group met at Connolly Station in Dublin and then travelled to Belfast in Northern Ireland to purchase contraceptives, which were banned in the Republic of Ireland.
Six states prohibit making threats toward a clinic's staff or patients: California, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, Washington, and Wisconsin.
Maternal-fetal conflict, also known as obstetric conflict, occurs when a pregnant woman’s (maternal) interests conflict with the interests of the fetus.
The NJDC engaged in voter education efforts, and worked with secular and Jewish media to promote the Democratic Party and its ideals.
In April 2014, the Court ruled the law was "not unconstitutional" but struck down eight provisions partially or in full.
Use of modern contraceptives in Latin America has increased to 58% in 2019 giving the region as a whole the highest contraceptive prevalence rate in the developing world.
In May 2023, LB574, the Adopt the Let Them Grow Act, approved 33–15, was one vote above of the 33 votes needed to end a filibuster.
In 2016 the CRR expanded its international program, including the launch of an international litigation campaign that has included the first abortion case decided by the United Nations Human Rights Committee and the first case to frame preventable maternal deaths as a human rights violation.
Theimer made Texas the first state in America to declare a woman could sue her doctor for a wrongful birth.
This still means that the punishment for women who obtain abortions contrary to the Act are faced with potential life imprisonment.
In 1989, the oldest decreței would have been 22 years old, in the general age range of most revolutionaries.
Moreover, the RFSU carries an extensive international work with similar organizations in other countries.
TFMR made a submission calling for a repeal of the Eighth Amendment and the removal of abortion from criminal law.
The 50-point declaration provides the rationale and a clear call to action for governments navigating Indigenous issues across the globe.
The European Court of Justice decided in Dekker v Stichting Vormingscentrum Voor Jonge Volwassen (VJV-Centrum) Plus that pregnancy discrimination was sex discrimination without any requirement for comparing this unfavourable treatment to a man.
Special goals and targets were also created to address adolescent sexual and reproductive health needs.
The CDC relies on voluntary reporting of abortion data from the states and the District of Columbia.
It was attended by more than 15,000 people, of which 60% were representatives from non-industrialized nations, and was held at the University of Nairobi.
A 2019 Pew Research Center study found that most Christian denominations were against overturning Roe v.
African slaves were transported in the 9th century via the Red Sea slave trade from Africa across the Red Sea to the slave markets of Jeddah, Mecca and Medina, and from there by caravan over the desert to the slave market of Baghdad.
In 2021 Nandita Bajaj became executive director and the organization adopted its current name of Population Balance and a new vision, mission, and philosophy.
Baird (1979) addressed a Massachusetts law that required a minor to acquire parental consent before an abortion was performed.
On the other hand, it could be the case where several putative fathers are fighting to establish custody.
Aftermath and legacy Upon her release, Hernandez lived with her sister and brother-in-law in Santa Barbara.
Pregnancy options counselors educate women about the different options that are available and help guide them to a decision on how to proceed with their pregnancy.
They live together in their home and run their own lives." This was in sharp contrast to the French law at the time, which prohibited abortion.
This combination regimen has increasingly been prescribed through telehealth and delivered by mail to individuals within states where abortion has since been broadly restricted following the Dobbs decision.
In regards to contraceptive security, this movement includes utilizing contraceptives to appropriately space second pregnancies between 18 and 59 months after childbirth.
In addition, it requires the doctor to put the ultrasound image within the view of the woman and describe it.
Some women publicly swallowed the aspirin in defiance of the law, pretending that they were the pill.
Origins The earliest documented appearance of a group calling itself "Church Ladies for Choice" occurred in November 1989 in Pittsburgh.
In the first three months it is known that a woman's body produces a natural surplus of red blood cells, which are well supplied with oxygen-carrying hemoglobin, in order to support the growing fetus.
The trial court granted those motions, explaining its view that "[t]he cryopreserved, in vitro embryos involved in this case did not fit within the statutory definition of 'person'" or "'child,'" and held that their loss did not accrue a cause of action for wrongful death.
The court was informed that the fetus was viable, or could live outside the mother, but would be unlikely to survive a post-mortem delivery.
Legal domains which do not have abortion on demand will often allow it when the health of the mother is at stake.
Women Decide!" and saw the formation of other important international networks including Women Living Under Muslim Laws (WLUML) and Latin American Women and Health Network.
In the first year of the law's operation, 1934, 84,600 cases were brought to Genetic Health Courts, with 62,400 forced sterilisations.
[1] [2] [3] Shame and Scandal — Women Criminals in the Late 19th Century — Part 2: Wanganui Flossy and the Dark Lady (with Podcast) Butler, Sara M.
Further, she emphasizes the financial and socio-economic challenges linked with ART, which disproportionately affect TGNB individuals due to intersecting marginalized identities.
According to Section 1 (2), a pregnant woman was entitled to have the pregnancy terminated within twelve weeks of its onset "by means of a medical intervention in an obstetric-gynecological facility".
A Better Balance filed additional charges of disability discrimination against Walmart later that year.
She began her career as a lawyer in private practice before teaching at the University of Oregon Law School and then at Santa Clara University.
While the District Court ruled the law unconstitutional, the Fifth Circuit found that unlike the Texas law, the burden of the Louisiana law passed the tests outlined in Whole Woman's Health, and thus the law was constitutional.
The following is the text of Article IV, Section, Clause 1, commonly known as the Full Faith and Credit Clause: Another source of potential constitutional uncertainty may arise from the Extradition Clause.
See also One-child policy Population history of China Tax on childlessness Two-child policy Aging of China == References ==
Eugenic, which allowed sterilising people considered insane or with severe illness or with a physical disability, so that these traits are not passed on the offspring.
Craig in October 2012, intentional misrepresentation of paternity was recognized by a unanimous Tennessee Supreme Court where the mother intentionally lied to a man about who the father of the child was.
She struggled with morning sickness and also was given a doctor's note restricting her from lifting more than 25 pounds, a task rarely assigned to her position.
In the early 1970s, the first specialised abortion clinics emerged, such as in Arnhem (Mildredhuis, 1971) and Heemstede (Bloemenhove Clinic, 1973).
On July 22, 2016, the court ruled in her favor and specified that the legislature had not intended for the feticide statute to be applied to illegal self-induced abortion, and so it vacated the feticide charge.
In Singapore, all surgical abortions are performed by a licensed physician at both government and private hospitals and clinics throughout the country, with nurse practitioners, pharmacists and midwives able to provide medications.
Sub-Saharan Africa is the world region most affected by HIV/AIDS, with approximately 25 million people living with HIV in 2015.
In 2016, the NNAF rallied alongside thousands of other organizations after the ruling that Texas cannot place restrictions on abortion services that cause an undue burden.
See also Abortion in the Republic of Ireland D v Ireland Miss D References External links Official website
Debates on reproductive rights in the region occur over abortion, sexual autonomy, reproductive healthcare, and access to contraceptive measures.
Activities Activities include two podcasts: OVERSHOOT | Shrink toward abundance and Beyond Pronatalism | Finding fulfillment, with or without kids, classroom and conference presentations, academic publications, and media and podcast interviews.
The Supreme Court responded with a denial to the Food and Drug Administration to overturn the order.
ART primarily belongs to the field of reproductive endocrinology and infertility Some forms of ART may be used about fertile couples for genetic purposes (see preimplantation genetic diagnosis).
The French government had not breached their duties under the Convention by not applying criminal penalties to the unintentional destruction of a foetus.
It was intended to build on the individual papers on specific issues provided by experts prior to the meeting, and the background paper prepared by the rapporteur.
United States Surrogacy and its attendant legal issues fall under state jurisdiction and the legal situation for surrogacy varies greatly from state to state.
Shortly before election day, Richard Uihlein gave $6.5 million to a political action committee (PAC), Vote No on Prop 1, to oppose the amendment.
History Prior to 1967 Before 1967, abortion was illegal in Singapore under sections 312–315 of the Penal Code of Singapore unless it was necessary to save the life or protect the health of the pregnant woman.
One study performed in 2010 by Gregory Price and William Darity Jr described the practice as "racially biased and genocidal".
Because of cases such as these, as well as urban couples who simply paid a fine (or "social maintenance fee") to have more children, the overall fertility rate of mainland China is, in fact, closer to two children per family than to one child per family (1.8).
Previously, the fine, called a "social upbringing fee" or "social maintenance fee", was the punishment for the families having more than one child.
The general session discussed that women ought to be able to live securely under conditions which granted them equality and justice, but there was a recognition that time is required to change traditional views and make people aware of needed change.
Lifestyle changes If the mother chooses to parent, doctors often encourage mothers to make positive lifestyle choices in order to prevent health problems with the unborn baby.
Levitt and Dubner note that Romania was the only east-European communist country with strict anti-abortion and anti-contraception laws at the time, and the only country whose ruler was violently overthrown and killed at the end of the Cold War.
In full, the article reads, "Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person." The United Nations treaty, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (1966), also recognizes a right to security of person.
The Lyons Court of Appeal reversed the decision made by the court of first instance on 3 March 1997.
From 1943, abortion was punishable by death if "the vitality of the German people continued to be impaired".
Rumours of abortion doping continued throughout the 1970s and 1980s, predominately aimed at East German athletes.
In 1935, a review panel convened by the Carnegie Institute concluded that the ERO's research did not have scientific merit.
International Day of Action for Women's Health In 1987, during a convene of the members of Women's Global Network for Reproductive Rights (WGNRR), 28 May was declared as International Day of Action for Women's Health.
Facts In June 2000, Natallie Evans (born October 1971) and Howard Johnston (born November 1976) who had met while working at Virgin Mobile in Wiltshire became engaged.
Researchers peg this to the possibility that these women may have more knowledge, both of the legal status of abortions, and more likely, where to obtain the procedure.
study, which used data from a statewide registry of birth defects, 6.2% of IVF-conceived children had major defects, as compared with 4.4% of naturally conceived children matched for maternal age and other factors (odds ratio, 1.3; 95% confidence interval, 1.00 to 1.67).
The law, however, allowed for the postponement of the execution of sentenced pregnant women until a baby was delivered.
One important distinction is between doctors who worked for the IHS directly and other doctors who performed sterilizations through a contractual arrangement with the IHS.
Elements The curative care aspect of PAC includes treating incomplete abortions by removing any fetal or maternal tissues remaining in the uterus.
Despite these measures, rape, whether systematic or otherwise, remains widespread in conflict zones.
Ms Evans decided to appeal to the Grand Chamber of the European Court, but commented that she still wanted her ex-fiancé to change his mind to allow the embryos to be used.
The parliamentary whip was lifted for this vote, allowing votes to accurately represent the members’ opinions.
The next mass opening of clinics occurred in January 1937 when American Clarence Gamble, in association with a group of wealthy and influential Puerto Ricans, organized the Maternal and Infant Health Association and opened 22 birth control clinics.
Three days into her court-ordered confinement, Burton underwent an emergency C-section, at which time the fetus was found to be dead.
To date, the group has not spoken out about cancer treatment or children's health services, which are also carried out in neighboring provinces.
Malaysia Surrogacy is currently prohibited by fatwa issued by National Council of Islamic Religious Affairs in 2008.
Following the passage of the 1988 Constitution, a law was passed in 1991 outlawing sexual harassment and making it a crime punishable by a fine of up to $20,000.
According to a study done in Sub-Saharan Africa, "about 13% of pregnancies end up in abortions and 97% of these are unsafe" (Bain, 2021).
Forensic experts discredit the use of such a test in criminal proceedings because of the number of false positives on record.
Its antecedent, the Latina Initiative, emerged five years earlier under the auspices of Catholics for a Free Choice.
The court must find clear and convincing evidence the person is unable to give consent and the procedure is in the best interest of the individual.
It sought to "condemn those officials of the Chinese Communist Party, the Government of the People's Republic of China, and other persons who are involved in the enforcement of forced abortions by preventing such persons from entering or remaining in the United States".
The conference marked the first time that the parallel Tribune meeting was successful in submitting input to the official meeting and became a catalyst for women's groups to form throughout the world.
The Domostroi was a set of tasks that were to be followed that were structured around rules, instructions surrounded by religious, social and domestic issues that were centered within the Russian Society.
Wallace Kuralt, Mecklenburg County's welfare director from 1945 to 1972, was a leader in transitioning the work of state eugenics from looking only at medical conditions to considering poverty as a justification for state sterilization.
The couple claimed on two bases: first, the physical discomfort suffered by the wife from the pregnancy, confinement, and delivery; second, the financial costs for the caring of and bringing up of a child.
WGNRR then relocated its main office to the Global South and by 2009, the main office was transferred from the Netherlands to the Philippines.
Monica Simpson had previously been the first staff person of color at Charlotte's Lesbian & Gay Community Center and won awards for organizing the first Black Gay Pride in the Bible Belt.
The plea was available at least as early as 1387 and was eventually rendered obsolete by the Sentence of Death (Expectant Mothers) Act 1931, which stated that an expecting mother would automatically have her death sentence commuted to life imprisonment with hard labour.
EEOC (2012) List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 477 References External links Text of Ohio Civil Rights Commission v.
Racial dimension of slavery There was a dimension of racism in the slavery of the Abbasid Caliphate.
Minors and abortion in law Australia A minor does not require parental consent or notification for abortions in Australia.
Weisberg concludes that although Gould did commit mistakes in his own treatment, Morton's work "remains a cautionary example of racial bias in the science of human differences".
Some scholars argue the extensive consent process and 30-day waiting period go beyond preventing instances of coercion and serve as a barrier to desired sterilization for women relying on public insurance.
In 1990, the IAC adopted the term "female genital mutilation" to describe the procedure previously referred to as "female circumcision".
In Utah, Representative Susan Duckworth introduced a bill that would have exempted menstrual hygiene products from sales tax, titled "Hygiene Tax Act".
Both in the United States and elsewhere, excommunication of such politicians has been envisaged but has not been applied.
As of 2024, ASN has made over £1,400,000 in grants to people seeking abortions, and has been contacted by 10,000 people.
As well, under the new regulations they no longer have to meet with a social worker and may obtain a medication abortion (if medically possible) under the oversight of a community health clinic, rather than having to go to hospitals to receive the medication as they did previously.
These states collectively reported having forcibly sterilized 59,000 people over the preceding 50 years.
Martin's Press, 1989), Memoir by the mother External links Summary of the Baby M case "Baby M (1988) (TV)".
While many countries permit voluntary sterilization for contraceptive purposes, some permit it only for medical or eugenic purposes.
Anti-abortion groups and the Catholic Church claim that the report compels all European Union member states to fund overseas abortion services through their foreign aid budgets.
Many of the youngest documented birth mothers in history experienced precocious puberty and were impregnated as a result of rape, including incest.
The male abortion The concept begins with the premise that when a woman becomes pregnant, she has the option of abortion, adoption, or parenthood.
However, abortion had been practiced by Russian women for decades and its incidence skyrocketed further as a result of the Russian Civil War, which had left the country economically devastated and made it extremely difficult for many people to have children.
"Introducing the CEDAW ROCS dataset: A Dataset on the United Nations Treaty the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women––Reservations and Objections of Committed States".
New Zealand The New Zealand Bill of Rights Act, adopted in 1990, guarantees "Life and security of the person" in sections 8 through 11.
It actively supported the passage of the 2012 law that allowed for free contraception to teenagers aged between 15 and 18 years old in France, though demanding that the service be extended to young people until the age of 25.
One of the earliest cases involving egg theft occurred in 1987 in Garden Grove, California, in a clinic run by doctor Ricardo Asch, and his partners doctors Sergio Stone and Jose Balmaceda.
Minister Dias Toffoli voluntarily abstained from voting due to a self-declared conflict of interest, as he previously presented a favorable opinion towards interrupting the pregnancy in such cases, during his term as Attorney General of Brazil.
Satang Nabaneh is a Gambian legal scholar, feminist activist, social justice advocate, and human rights practitioner.
Parliament passed and President Dmitri Medvedev signed several restrictions on abortion into law to combat "a falling birthrate" and "plunging population".
Number of abortions There was a 673% rise in recorded abortions between 1970 and 1975, due to the sudden availability of treatment.
If the woman was found to be quick with child then she was reprieved by default until the next hanging time, though this could result in further reprieve or commutation (lessening of sentence) depending on the nursing needs of the child and nature of the offence.
As such, many medical institutions in such countries institute in-house policies regarding circumstances in which the procedure would be performed.
MacLennan v MacLennan 1958 SC 105 is a Scots a family law decision that ruled that artificial insemination does not constitute adultery for the purposes of divorce.
Historical development Historians describe varied forms of abortion provision across the 19th and early 20th centuries, followed by the mid-to-late 20th-century growth of clinic-based services and organised referral networks in jurisdictions where abortion was legal or liberalised.
It includes curative care, such as treating abortion complications, as well as preventative care, such as providing birth control to prevent future unwanted pregnancies.
During the final days of the 2008 presidential campaign, an article came out explaining that the "National Jewish Democratic Council is sending out more than 350,000 mailers to Jewish households in key swing states, re-asserting the Democratic nominees stance on a number of issues".
He produced expert testimony that it was possible for a male to get an erection and ejaculate while unconscious.
In Embassytown (2011) by China Miéville, the protagonist refers to two characters as "mooncalf and quite impossible".
Critics say that men should use birth control (either contraception or sterilization) or practice abstinence if they want to avoid the financial and personal responsibilities of fatherhood.
The most significant development to come out of the conference was the International Feminist Network.
As noted by legal scholar Jonathan Turley, this ruling creates a split between those states that honor gestational surrogacy and those that do not.
Tactics for sterilization included healthcare providers neglecting to tell women they were going to be sterilized and forms of coercion such as threatening to take away welfare or healthcare.
Koblitz quoted the book's argument that "the liberal humanistic aspirations family planners envisioned ...
A great deal of discussion regarding pregnant patients' rights has taken place in the United States.
If abortion occurs before 12 weeks' gestation, it is called early; from 12 to 20 weeks it is called late." "Abortion is the spontaneous or induced termination of pregnancy before fetal viability.
A Guttmacher Institute policy analysis states that both forcing a woman to terminate a pregnancy she wants and forcing a woman to continue a pregnancy she doesn't want violate the basic human right of reproductive health.
PRRO became active in November 2011, when they held a public education rally outside of the provincial legislature.
Women's liberation movement A socialist feminist in the 1970s typically had the choice to follow a Marxism perspective of society, or separate themselves and join the women's movement.
After this final showing, the large group of artworks ended its journey, and the entire collection was presented by the project co-directors Nancy Cusick and Mal Johnson to the archives of the National Museum of Women in the Arts.
Decision-making regarding pregnant patients' care A 1987 study found that, in the preceding decade, at least 22 hospitals in the United States sought direction from the courts regarding care for pregnant patients.
The "Elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls" forms a priority theme for its fifty-seventh session in 2013 (CSW57).
By 1989, abortion was officially legalized in cases of rape, incest, and for women under 16 years old, among other reasons.
The court lays down specific rules for adultery: 1- In adultery there must be two parties, physically present and engaging in sexual act.
This not only impacts the distance these individual patients must travel, but also the congestion of each center serving both local and visiting patients.
These surgeries were instances of sterilization abuse, a term applied to any sterilization performed without the consent or knowledge of the recipient, or in which the recipient is pressured into accepting the surgery.
The Rome Statute Explanatory Memorandum, which defines the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, recognises rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, and forced pregnancy as crimes against humanity if part of a widespread or systematic practice.
Diplomatic Mission in Nigeria conferred on Usiobaifo its "Woman of Courage" award, citing two decades of work to reform laws and challenge socio‑cultural norms that perpetuate GBV.
In keeping with contemporary Christian views on contraception, the dissemination of information and the possession of materials relating to birth control were illegal in Canada.
He was elected a member of the American Philosophical Society in 1828 and the American Antiquarian Society in 1844.
At customs, the women involved loudly declared what they had purchased and refused to hand over the contraceptives.
Starting in the 1950s, with the natural childbirth movement gaining strength, concern increased over typical hospital practices during childbirth.
Sterilisation and gender reassignment surgery Until 2013, sterilisation was mandatory before gender reassignment surgery.
Major complications and risk of death to the mother significantly increase for each week into pregnancy, particularly if the abortion is delayed until the third trimester.
In November 2015, Charlie Edge and Ruth Howarth free-bled in front of Parliament to further drive awareness.
Population Media Center (PMC) is an educational entertainment organization dedicated to women's rights and empowerment, population stabilization, and the environment.
She has served as a postdoctoral fellow at the Centre for Human Rights in Pretoria and currently holds a joint appointment at the University of Dayton's Human Rights Center and School of Law.
Supporters expected the vote to be routine because they believed the report was similar to previous resolutions.
206 (2015), is a United States Supreme Court case that the Court evaluated the requirements for bringing a disparate treatment claim under the Pregnancy Discrimination Act.
Over time, the Encyclopædia Britannica and the Larousse encyclopedias dramatically changed their opinion on the topic, moving from acceptance to rejection of the historical veracity of the idea.
See also List of United States Supreme Court cases List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 575 References External links Text of Young v.
Since the benefits are incalculable, but the costs are, the costs of raising the child are not recoverable as damages."It would not be fair, just or reasonable, in any assessment of the loss caused by the birth of the child, to leave these benefits out of account...
Practices such as medical lactation induction can simulate the changes of breasts during pregnancy and begin lactation with the assistance of medication.
For preventative care, women are provided family planning counseling and services, as most women seeking PAC were not using modern contraceptives at the time of conception.
In January 2026, The Greenock Telegraph reported that "Concerns have been raised locally after it was revealed that members of an anti-abortion group have given talks at schools in Inverclyde." Marriage SPUC has opposed same-sex marriage.
Professor Goodwin has also been a Visiting Professor at the University of Chicago and University of Virginia law schools.
The Latina Institute is the only national Latina health and reproductive rights organization representing an increasingly diverse and growing Latina population.
He wrote the five-act comedy Le droit du seigneur or L'écueil du sage in 1762, although it was not performed until 1779, after his death.
medicine the removal of an embryo or fetus from the uterus before it is sufficiently developed to survive independently, deliberately induced by the use of drugs or by surgical procedures.
Judicial ruling The judge that was over the trial, Judge Kearney, requested that if she wanted to get probation over a six-month jail term then she must submit to sterilization, a surgical procedure.
This puts patients at risk and places physicians in precarious ethical positions." Medical residents now have a gap in education as over half of OB-GYN residency training programs are in states with restrictive abortion laws.
The Democrats, who wanted to make sure to meet the deadline, agreed to the wording Republicans proposed, written at a college reading level and omitting the terms "abortion" and "LGBT".
Background The donor, a gay man whose identity remains anonymous, had been friends with the lesbian couple to whom he donated sperm in 2006.
Patriarchal traditions were readily transferred from the Iberian Peninsula to Latin America through the encomienda system that fostered economic dependence among women and indigenous peoples in Brazil.
1945) is an American who was a 21-year-old resident and mother of two in Santa Barbara, California, in 1966, when she was ordered to be sterilized or be imprisoned.
Canada In January 2015, the Canadian government recognised sanitary products as an essential item, ending the GST tax on all sanitary products.
Background Constitutional amendment procedure Any amendment to the Constitution of California requires the passage of a California ballot proposition by a simple majority of the voters.
ANCIC stated it supported the government's stand against "virginity tests", but warned that in some cases women were in "real danger" and "a ban would simply deny the existence of such community practices, without making them disappear".
The podcast hosts interview expert guests to explore the drivers and impacts of ecological overshoot as well as pathways forward.
The Crown Dependencies of Guernsey, Jersey and the Isle of Man have similar laws to neighbouring England and Wales.
Abortion after 1990 Although in the early 1990s, shortly after abortion was legalized, the abortion rate was very high, it decreased strongly as more couples started using contraception, and the economy also started to improve after the instability of the transition.
It has also been recommended that dog owners walk dogs for 35 minutes, before placing them inside a dog enclosure, in order to adjust dogs to the urban environment.
A main reason for this lies in the fragmented nature of maritime governance in international waters, the poor enforcement of existing regulations in the High seas, plus the difficult co-management that would be required of countries often in conflict.
The road bridge, built in 1792, spans the East Dart; just above it, at the side of the large carpark is an earlier, possibly medieval, clapper bridge, now partially collapsed.
The Bute Building (Welsh: Adeilad Bute) is a Cardiff University building in Cathays Park, Cardiff, Wales.
Both Manitoba's Duck Mountain Provincial Park and Saskatchewan's Duck Mountain Provincial Park are contained within the forest.
New Zealand In New Zealand, regional parks are administered by regional councils rather than the Department of Conservation or territorial authorities.
McCroskey accepted the terms, and lived exactly fifteen more years, fulfilling his obligation to the state of Idaho just weeks before his death in 1970 at age 93.
The National Playing Fields Association also promoted playgrounds across the middle of the century (one of its founding aims was to "secure proper playgrounds for children"), which in their mind equated to manufactured equipment.
Pleaching or plashing is a technique of interweaving living and dead branches through a hedge creating a fence, hedge, or lattices.
See also Upper Seletar Reservoir List of Parks in Singapore Lower Seletar, Singapore References External links Lower Seletar Reservoir Park
The next significant acquisitions occurred from 1979 through the end of the 1980s, when the forest expanded to 5,000 acres (20 km2).
According to the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (DNR), the Piers Gorge tract includes "whitewater rapids and waterfalls, and contains some of the fastest-moving water in Michigan or Wisconsin.
The land operated as a brewery from 1967 to 1999, and as a high-capacity outdoor concert venue from 1987 to 2005.
Sustainable Sites Initiative The Sustainable Sites Initiative is a commercial accreditation body in USA which certifies landscapers and sites using guidelines and performance benchmarks for sustainable land design, for which their registered trademark can be earned after a fee.
Mellenthin (1884–1918), forest ranger of La Sal National Forest, who was shot to death near this peak on August 23, 1918, while attempting to apprehend two draft evaders.
The project was the result of over 25 years of recreational and tourist development, creating pressure to establish a legal framework to protect this valuable natural asset.
United States As residential areas were subdivided and developed during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the "suburban ideal" demanded large front yards, "dominated" by the facades of the houses they bounded.
The park contains many features and amenities, including: Ping pong area with several tables Public bathrooms Convenience store Police outpost Exercise equipment Gateball area == References ==
Toi Tū Toi Ora attracts over 191,000 visitors with Māori visitation increased from 4 per cent to 15 per cent.
The land reflects the geological history of the area, with deep valleys between the peaks, which include Mount Asgard with an 800 m (2,600 ft) face, and Mount Thor with a 1,250 m (4,100 ft) face.
The external stonework is inscribed with the date "1705" and the "Drake star" from his coat of arms.
Cretaceous The area is underlain at shallower depths by the pure marine limestones of the Chalk Group though, within the park, these rocks are not seen at the surface except in a very small area on its extreme northwestern margin in the parish of Hale where the Portsdown Chalk Formation is exposed.
Dogs that are highly socialized and exercised are healthier, happier, and less aggressive in behavior.
Auyuittuq National Park (Inuktitut: ᐊᐅᔪᐃᑦᑐᖅ, IPA: [aujuitːuq], "the land that never melts") is a national park located on Baffin Island's Cumberland Peninsula, in the Qikiqtaaluk Region of Nunavut, the largest political subdivision of Canada.
From time on, many scenic viewpoints have since become tourist attractions, with numerous vistas inscribed as world heritage-listed natural sites.
Associated with this diversity of habitat are several species of plant and insect which are rarely seen in London.
Horine also features many hiking trails and both the Paul Yost and Tom Wallace Recreation Areas have horse trails.
It is not navigable for general canoeing, but has become a popular destination for expert class kayakers seeking challenging Class IV whitewater.
On 11 June 1987, Pope John Paul II had performed a mass at the Bright Meadows, during his visit to Poland.
Yelverton is well known for Roborough Rock - a prominent mass of stone close to the Plymouth road on the fringe of nearby Roborough Down, near the southern end of the airfield.
Previously, the upper Great Highway would close around 27 times annually for sand and debris removal.
The neoclassical building was designed by architects Percy Thomas and Ivor Jones, who won a competition in 1911 to design a building for Cardiff Technical College.
North York Moors and Dorman Museum In 1904 Frank became Assistant Curator to the Dorman Museum and he held this post until 1923 when he became Curator.
Many of these groups join together in broad coalitions to advocate for better park maintenance and government accountability.
It consists of a large, open, brick-covered area at the west, and grassy areas in the middle and east.
The manor itself is a two-storied building, the ground floor being covered by a mansard roof from the 1922 reconstruction.
Located close by is the Aspire Tower, a 300-meter modern hotel, which served as a giant torch for the 15th Asian Games.
One of the most expansive efforts to protect and foster urban wilds is the aptly titled "Urban Wilds program" conducted in Boston, which had its start in 1977 off the back of a 1976 report by the Boston Planning & Development Agency (BPDA), formerly the Boston Redevelopment Authority (BRA).
In addition, there are 32 miles (51 km) of trails open to hiking, mountain biking, horses, and all-terrain vehicles.
As elsewhere, the names of particular rock strata (and higher level groups) sometimes change as geological knowledge expands and research correlates strata in one area with those of another.
In June 2002, legislation was passed to establish 13 Marine National Parks and 11 Marine Sanctuaries.
The designations are managed by the Bureau of Land Management within the National Conservation Lands.
Funds have been sanctioned by the government to develop the park, to build a new compound wall around, and a walkers’ track in it.
City of Rocks National Reserve: Established to preserve historical and cultural resources and maintain scenic quality in southern Idaho.
In the late 19th century the Wild Marsh East was bisected when the River Lea was diverted to accommodate the construction of some of the Lee Valley Reservoir Chain.
Suliwala Bagh, variously spelled as Suli Wala Bagh, Sooliwala Bagh or Sooli Wala Bagh, is located in Purkazi Nagar Panchayat of Muzaffarnagar District, Suliwala Bagh or Sooliwala Bagh (translation: Garden of Gallows) is a historical site in Uttar Pradesh, India.
Dominican national park system The Dominican national park system includes: urban parks and recreational areas.
Alice Babs Jussi Björling Gullan Bornemark Anders Burman Neneh Cherry Carola Häggkvist Ulf Lundell Yngwie Malmsteen Peps Persson Robyn 2016 (February 11) The jury consisted of Jan Gradvall, Per Sinding-Larsen, Ametist Azordegan, Kerstin Behrendtz and Anna Charlotta Gunnarsson.
The initiative is backed by the fundraising foundation Svenska Musikskattens Hus, which was formed in 2011.
Meavy was purchased by Sir Francis Drake, 3rd Baronet (1642–1718), of Buckland Abbey in the parish of Buckland Monachorum, who sometimes resided at the manor house west of St Peter's Church, in which survives the "Drake Aisle" or manorial chapel.
From the south, the climb starts at the junction with the A628, from where it is 4 km (2.5 mi) long, with a height gain of 274 m (899 ft) at an average gradient of 6.9%.
The park measures about 60 m × 60 m (200 ft × 200 ft) in dimensions making an area of around 1 acre (4,000 m2).
Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.
The glacial landforms and sediments of Interstate Park were largely created during the retreat of the Superior Lobe from this region and periodic outburst flood events from proglacial lakes, e.g.
The best access point is from Highway 95, but visitors can also enter the park from Farmington road on the west side, a few miles north of Farmington, Washington.
See also List of Parks in Singapore National Parks Board References External links National Parks Board National Parks Board - War Memorial Park
Neighborhood parks, which generally range in size up to 30 acres (120,000 m2), serve as a social and recreational focal points for neighborhoods and are the basic units of a park system.
While this type of construction is common, it raises significant safety issues if the decks are not properly waterproofed and flashed.
He has been awarded one gold, two silver and three silver-gilt medals at the Chelsea Flower Show since 2008, as well as the RHS People’s Choice Award for The Arthritis Research UK Garden 2012.
Throughout its history, various events and festivals were hosted in the park, including the Trzymamy Straż Nad Odrą in 1946, and the meeting with Nikita Khrushchev, leader of the Soviet Union, in 1959.
Many overlooks are accessible only by trails and wooden walkways and stairs, especially in ecologically sensitive areas.
The proposed park contains a variety of flora and fauna, including 19 plant species listed in the Red Book of Ukraine, 37 regional rare species and 17 animal species found in the European Red List.
Roosevelt's proclamation unleashed a storm of criticism about use of the Antiquities Act to circumvent Congress.
The driest hilltops even support the brittle prickly pear cactus, the only cactus species native to Wisconsin.
The largest marine park used to be the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park in Australia, at 350,000 km2 until 2010, when the United Kingdom announced the opening of the Chagos Marine Park or Chagos Archipelago.
As the name suggests, Dartmeet is the meeting point of the two major tributaries of the River Dart: the East Dart and West Dart.
The Sept Îles Archipelago Regional Park (French: Parc régional de l'archipel des Sept Îles) is a proposed protected area in the Côte-Nord region of Quebec, Canada.
The process of enclosure began to be a widespread feature of the English agricultural landscape during the 16th century.
According to them, this type of torii was used as a symbol for underground Christians, and that it represented the Holy Trinity.
Open to visitors all year long, the park has a triumphal arch-like gate and is walled by a waist-high oriental ornamented fence.
This led to the passage of the Provincial Parks and Protected Areas Act in 1930 and the formation of the Provincial Board of Management to oversee the system.
Many are referred to colloquially as "rangers" such as Wilderness Rangers, Climbing Rangers, Snow Rangers, Recreation Rangers, and Forest Protection Officers even though they are all officially categorized as Forestry Technicians.
448 Det gamla Göteborg - staden i väster, Första delen, C R A Fredberg (1921), Facsimile med omfattande tillägg, 1977, Sven Schånberg, Arvid Flygare, Bertil Nyberg, Walter Ekstrands Bokförlag 1977 ISBN 91-7408-015-6 s.
The northern bank of the Keelung River completed the greening landscape improvement project in February 2010.
Climate Based on the Köppen climate classification, Cinnamon Peak is located in a subarctic climate zone with cold, snowy winters, and mild summers.
Gallery See also List of waterfalls List of waterfalls by flow rate List of waterfalls of the Northwest Territories == References ==
The race starts at Cartworth Moor cricket ground, crosses Ramsden Clough to Holme Moss, crosses and descends to Crowden before returning via Bareholme Moss, Laddow Rocks and Black Hill.
The list of gardens is a link page for any park or garden open to the public, anywhere in the world.
A paradeisos was a playground for the Persian nobility, combining parklands, orchards and hunting grounds.
The months June through September usually offer the most favorable weather to view or climb the peak.
The Stefan Wiechecki "Wiech" Park, also simply known as the Wiech Park, is an urban park in Warsaw, Poland, located in the district of Targówek, between Kołowa, Remiszewska, Ossowskiego, and Handlowa Streets.
The uppermost and hence youngest of all the ‘solid’ rock units within the park is the Headon Formation (forming a part of the Solent Group, which comprises clays, silts, and sands laid down in freshwater conditions.
Shallalat Gardens (Arabic: حدائق الشلالات) is the name of the ancient garden located in Alexandria, Egypt.
Although an urban beach may not have facilities for swimming, swimwear is commonly seen alongside the more usual attire seen in major urban centers.
References External links Parks and Wildlife Service: Rockingham Lakes Regional Park Urban Bushland Council WA Inc.: Rockingham Lakes Regional Park
National Association of State Park Directors is an organization dedicated to the preservation of state parks in the United States.
Background Under the Sihwa District Reclamation Project Plan, which aims to expand Ansan Smart Hub and agricultural land, the area, formerly called Gunja Bay, was constructed as the Sihwa SeaWall from 1987 to 1994.
An American adventurer and businessman from Long Island, New York, named Fenley Hunter, under the employ of the Geological Survey of Canada, explored the region during the summer of 1928 and named the waterfall after his daughter.
History Lower Seletar Reservoir was constructed under the Sungei Seletar/Bedok Water Scheme, completed in 1986.
Dartmeet was one of the boundary points mentioned (though not by name) in the 1240 Perambulation of the Forest of Dartmoor, the boundary coming down the East Dart from the Wallabrook, and continuing up the West Dart to the foot of the O Brook.
Occupy Ottawa The Occupy movement's presence in Ottawa began on Saturday October 15, 2011 with around 500 people participating at Confederation Park.
In 1881, responsibility for this menagerie was handed to naturalist and civil servant Tanaka Yoshio, who oversaw its transition into a public zoo, the Ueno Imperial Zoo.
The National Park Services uses the provisions of the AICA to this day to ensure development does not impair the resources of the Mississippi River in the Twin Cities.
One example of the way the Omora Park attempts to use field environmental philosophy to link theory and practice can be found in the Tourism with a Hand Lens initiative.
The George Washington Memorial Parkway and the Clara Barton Parkway, running along the Potomac River near Washington, D.C., and Alexandria, Virginia, were also constructed during this era.
It also has football pitches, a gateball court, children's playgrounds, fitness stations, and public toilets.
The structure, without a roof, has a single narrow opening for access and small secondary openings at the base to allow rainwater to pass through.
Congress passed a revised version of the bill in 1980 incorporating most of these national monuments into national parks and preserves, but the act also curtailed further use of the proclamation authority in Alaska.
Monaco Street Parkway, in Denver, Colorado, is a parkway, part of the Denver Park and Parkway System, which was designed by architect S.R.
War Memorial Park is a park in Singapore, located at the junctions of Beach Road, Stamford Road, Nicoll Highway and Bras Basah Road in the Downtown Core of Singapore's Central Region next to Esplanade MRT station.
The upper part of the moor continues into Black Hill which is crossed by the Pennine Way north–south footpath.
However, Confederation Park was never considered as a site by the library committee considering the location of a new central branch and any changes to the park would first need to be approved by the NCC.
Many park systems are underfunded and rely upon grassroots neighborhood-park groups and associations.
Transportation The park is accessible by bus from Taipei Nangang Exhibition Center Station or Taipei Zoo Station of Taipei Metro.
Mihashira Torii or Mitsubashira Torii (三柱鳥居, Three-pillar Torii; also 三角鳥居 sankaku torii) are a type of torii gate found in Shinto architecture.
The Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR), also known as Board of Parks and Recreation or Park Board, is used by many government bodies to describe the parts of their organizations that oversee public parks and recreational public works.
List of the National parks of the Dominican Republic, located on and near the island of Hispaniola, in the Caribbean region.
It is thought by some to have been built by early Japanese Christians to represent the Holy Trinity.
Delaware Public Archives The Delaware Public Archives building houses an extensive collection of materials dating from the 17th century to today and a public research room.
See also List of parks in Taiwan References External links Media related to Dajia Riverside Park at Wikimedia Commons
Its presentation in New Zealand is arranged by the new director Peter Tomory who predicts that the exhibition is bound to be controversial.
In the late 2017, this park was closed by Chuwit Kamolvisit sold this land to Land and Houses with a value of 5,000 million baht.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Dog parks allow owners and their dogs to spend time together and offer dogs a space for play and companionship with others.
The animals were executed primarily by poisoning, strangulation or by simply placing the animals on starvation diets.
It has the only lake in Qatar, a small hill, a coffee shop where different kinds of beverages can be bought, and various kinds of trees, both rare and common.
As well in 1959 the Provincial Parks Branch was established, headed by a Provincial Parks Commissioner, who reported to the parks board.
A marine park is a designated park consisting of an area of sea (or lake) set aside to achieve ecological sustainability, promote marine awareness and understanding, enable marine recreational activities, and provide benefits for Indigenous peoples and coastal communities.
Walyungup, in the Nyungar language, means "place where Nyungars talk", leading to the conclusion that the northern lake was a place for children while the southern one was for adults.
Criticism When it was opened, the establishment of the park caused objection across Hungary, because it included only the larger-than-life head sculpture of Sultan Suleiman.
They are often located near urban populations, but they provide recreational facilities typical of the countryside rather than the town.
Italy A piazza (Italian pronunciation: [ˈpjattsa]) is a city square in Italy, Malta, along the Dalmatian coast and in surrounding regions.
In 1993 when the airmen were posthumously awarded a Polish decoration, a bronze replica of the Polish Home Army Cross and a small plaque with inscription were added.
Sights The fountain (built in 2000) The sports facilities (football pitches, tennis courts) The artificial lake with a bridge.
Currently there are nature parks in the following states: Belgium In Belgium, there are two different structures.
These last two introduced a bill to the Minnesota Legislature calling for the creation of the State Park of the Dalles of the St.
Later versions By 1965 Jay's Grave had become a major Dartmoor attraction, with tourist coaches stopping there while the driver/guide related their own version of the story.
This plan was stopped in 1983 after a safety check due to requests for the line to be kept in operation.
Most forms of play are essential for healthy development, but free, spontaneous play—the kind that occurs on playgrounds—is the most beneficial.
The 'pannierman' is a poem about bygone life on the North York Moors, and refers to Pannierman Causeway and Wade's Causeway.
Previously there was also a museum at Djurgården in Stockholm, which was inaugurated in May 2013 and closed in February 2017.
Costs or timeline of construction of the park were not divulged, but was preliminarily described by Tory to cost "tens of millions of dollars per acre".
The 138 national monuments are managed by several federal agencies: the National Park Service, United States Forest Service, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (in the case of marine national monuments).
McCroskey State Park—officially Mary Minerva McCroskey State Park—is a public recreation area in the Pacific Northwest of the United States, located in the Palouse region of northern Idaho.
The building was registered as a Category I heritage item by Heritage New Zealand on 24 November 1983, listed with registration number 92.
Cinnamon Peak is a 2,727-metre (8,947-foot) mountain summit located in the northwestern part of Mount Robson Provincial Park, in the Canadian Rockies of British Columbia, Canada.
Provisions As a result of AICA multiple conservation areas and art organizations were established including: San Pedro Riparian National Conservation Area: Established to protect the riparian area and various resources in southern Arizona.
As a music venue, Molson Park saw events such as Edgefest and Vans Warped Tour, and acts including Beastie Boys, Rage Against the Machine, Aretha Franklin, Radiohead, Creed, 3 Doors Down, Pearl Jam, Neil Young, NOFX, and Oasis.
Paris today has more than 421 municipal parks and gardens, covering more than three thousand hectares and containing more than 250,000 trees.
In the late 1980s, the Western Mining Corporation carried out limnology and botanical studies on the lake, which however were not published.
The Omora Park is a research, education and conservation center for the Cape Horn Biosphere Reserve.
The northern side in particular is one of England's best known bicycle ascents, and has acquired a reputation as among the country's more difficult climbs.
Many contained large concert halls, or hosted promenade concerts; some lesser discussed pleasure gardens were home to haberdasheries and harems.
From the border of the buffalo reserve into the neighbouring Cheringoma highlands, a hunting concession of 8,252 square kilometres surrounds the Marromeu Complex, which consists of the 1,500-square-kilometer Marromeu Special Reserve.
His mother, Jane née Coates (1851–1907), was in poor health but dealt with his early education and he attended the local Public Elementary School in North Ormesby.
Centro Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Centro, Usera, Latina, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
History The park was built between 1925 and 1927, on the land donated in 1925 to the city by Martin Quistorp.
Parks commonly resemble savannas or open woodlands, the types of landscape that human beings find most relaxing.
On June 23, 2021, Shin Shin gave birth to male and female twin cubs, later named Xiao Xiao (暁暁 シャオシャオ) and Lei Lei (蕾蕾 レイレイ).
This formation is in turn overlain by the London Clay Formation, the outcrop of which can be traced from the Fordingbridge area via Redlynch northeast to Whiteparish.
Geology The park spans over an area of 21 hectares (52 acres), the largest tree-covered area in Nangang District.
Sépaq falls under the authority of the Minister of Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs (Sustainable development, Environment and Parks) and its head office is located in Quebec City.
Halfway up Dartmeet Hill, close to the road, lies the Coffin Stone on which coffins would be placed to allow the bearers to take a rest on the way to taking bodies for burial at Widecombe-in-the-Moor.
Weymouth Peace Garden is garden dedicated to peace in the seaside town of Weymouth in Dorset, southern England.
To the south was also opened the legislative building of the Province of Pomerania, which since 1945, serves as the Szczecin City Hall.
The Lakes Cooloongup and Walyungup continue to be of spiritual significance for the local indigenous population as the place where the Sea Waugal laid her eggs.
Also, the development of an electronic data collection tool such as iSOPARC now enables researchers to enter, store, and analyze data more easily.
Dworshak State Park is a public recreation area covering 850 acres (340 ha) along the western shore of Dworshak Reservoir north of Orofino in Clearwater County, Idaho, United States.
The five finalists of this survey were Sunset Dunes, Playland Park, Great Parkway, Fogline, and Plover Parkway.
PITS claimed to have development rights purchased from Toronto Terminal Railway, over a significant area of the rail corridor.
Located on Maharat Road, Phra Borom Maha Ratchawang Subdistrict, Phra Nakhon District behind the Grand Palace between Tha Tian (N8) and Tha Chang Wang Luang Pier (N9).
For the heats, the race takes place over 40 laps where the winner is the rider who is first to complete the set number of laps.
The benefits of exercise for dogs are well documented, although dogs can learn and reinforce bad behaviors if owners are not vigilant or careful.
The park is in a thickly forested part of Swastik, next to an army camp, about 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) from Gangtok on National Highway 31 to North Sikkim.
It has become more popular in the early 21st century, featuring in a number of urban renewal projects.
Gallery See also The High Line The 606 Gyeongchun Line Forest Park References External links Media related to Gyeongui Line Forest Park at Wikimedia Commons Mapo District government website (in English)
On 23 March, 2020, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry closed the park, along with other parks, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
In Hinduism, deities are represented and invoked through unique sacred, geometrical patterns inscribed in yantras and mandalas.
Manor The manor of Meavy (alias Meavy Church, Mewy, etc.) in Roborough Hundred was held in 1086 at the time of Domesday Book by Robert le Bastard, or by Juhel de Totnes.
First established based on a collection donated by the Auckland Society of Arts, the library was first established in October 1953 as a reading room within the gallery.
Analysis A Report produced by the Nous Group found that the establishment of the Great Forest National Park with three different investment scenarios could generate as much as 379,000 additional visitors to the region.
1,300 acres (5.3 km2) were secured by the time of dedication, and through 1954, an additional 400 acres (1.6 km2) were acquired.
The Civilian War Memorial is located at the center of the park as a memorial to civilians who died in the Japanese occupation of Singapore during World War II.
This has proven to be an experience critical for motivating politicians and decisions makers to appreciate and act positively to conserve species and their habitats.
See also Observation Point (disambiguation) for specific places called "Observation Point" Observation deck Observation post Stratum Pier by artist Kendall Buster == References ==
Leila K Denniz Pop Kent Barbro Hörberg Karl Gerhard Monica Dominique Sven-Ingvars Owe Thörnqvist Siw Malmkvist 2017 (March 23) The jury consisted of Anna Charlotta Gunnarson (Chairman), Per Sinding-Larsen, Kerstin Behrendtz and Lars Nylin.
Riding in pairs, each team member takes turns to race, bringing his or her partner into the race with a ‘hand-sling’.
References External links Yelverton Community Page Archived 10 May 2007 at the Wayback Machine RAF Harrowbeer Site
Hoblyn trained at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and set up his company Thomas Hoblyn Garden Design Ltd in 2002.
The cities of Urbandale, Clive, and West Des Moines all are mostly in Polk County, but have parks located in other counties which are not counted towards parks in Polk County.
The sites of the park are First State Heritage Park Welcome Center and Galleries, the Old State House, Delaware Legislative Hall, John Bell House, Delaware Public Archives, Johnson Victrola Museum, Delaware Governor's Mansion, and the Biggs Museum of American Art.
However, for about the first 50 years of the park's history, most aristocracy avoided the park, as they deemed it as lacking in ornamentation and poorly landscaped.
On January 23, 2019, the Bureau of Transportation announced that the line will be suspended due to aging of the rolling stocks introduced in 2001.
The Soundtrack of Our Lives Petter Monica Törnell Lars Gullin Brita Borg 2023 (September 13) Ann-Louise Hanson Mando Diao Lena Willemark Jenny Wilson Tomas Ledin 2024 (September 24) The new chairman of the election jury is music editor Mathias Bridfelt.
See also Natural National Landscapes References External links National Parks and other Protected Areas Map/list of German National Parks (unofficial) Map of German National Parks with various filtering options Geographic data related to List of national parks of Germany at OpenStreetMap
After the Gyeongui Line was partially reconstructed underground, Gyeongui Line Forest Park was created in its place.
The name derives from the fact that this would be a refuge in case of an attack upon the city, from which arms would be supplied to the defenders.
Keeping the tradition that dates back to 1944, the Palace offered guest rooms to the most outstanding Polish authors and artists including such names as Andrzej Wajda, Władysław Tatarkiewicz, Aleksander Gieysztor, Maria Dąbrowska and Sławomir Mrożek.
Founding director Dr Ricardo Rozzi inaugurated the practice of "field environmental philosophy" at the Omora Park.
Its history dates back to Indian Rebellion of 1857 when the first war of independence or Sepoy Mutiny broke out between the Indian Freedom activists and the British Empire.
Mississippi National River and Recreation Area: Established a new unit of the National Park Service to protect the two major rivers in the Minneapolis-St.
Name The park was named after Stefan Wiechecki (penname: Wiech), a 20th-century writer and journalist.
Omora Ethnobotanical Park is a protected area of Chile located 4 km (2 mi) west of Puerto Williams on Navarino Island in the extreme southern Magellan and Chilean Antarctica Region.
Because sustainability is such a broad concept the environmental impacts of sites can be categorized in numerous ways depending on the purpose for which the figures are required.
In December 2017, the Toronto City Council voted in favour of pushing ahead planned work for Rail Deck Park in a 36–4 vote.
Holy Cross Catholic Church was built as a chapel in the early 1920s and upgraded to a church in 1928.
Dartmeet is the official put in for the Upper Dart section of the River Dart for whitewater kayakers and canoeists.
Toys and common play areas of private dog parks are commonly sanitized on a daily basis to ensure cleanliness and to prevent the spread of bacteria and diseases.
Flower boxes may also be used to line decks, patios, porches, steps, and sidewalks and they can even be hung from railings.
In addition to its 250 tanks for fish, the aquarium houses a wide variety of amphibians and reptiles, including tuataras.
Sawyer can be seen near the USS Yorktown in Charleston Harbor, 32.798761°N 79.906863°W﻿ / 32.798761; -79.906863, South Carolina.
The bumpy surface is created by tiny particles of vermiculite or polystyrene, which gives the ceiling sound-deadening properties.
The style of the bench can be related to 'Secret city design tricks to manipulate your behaviour', which relates to the idea that things may be designed to encourage a type of behaviour without it being either obvious or ugly.
Minimum loads or actions are specified in these building codes for types of structures, geographic locations, usage and building materials.
Instrumentation such as load cells, strain gauges and displacement gauges are installed on the structure to ensure the correct loading has been applied.
See also List of towers References External links http://www.ionosonde.iap-kborn.de/indexeng.htm Sendeturm Ionosonde Juliusruh at Structurae http://www.skyscraperpage.com/diagrams/?b45849
It was thought for centuries that wooden coffers were first made by crossing the wooden beams of a ceiling in the Loire Valley châteaux of the early Renaissance.
He went to the Technische Hochschule in Berlin-Charlottenburg in 1938 and made his doctoral study under the supervision of Georg Hamel.
Besides subterranean structure, the oldest existent caisson in an above-ground structure is the one located above the 16-metre-tall (52 ft) statue of Guanyin in the Guanyin Pavilion of Dule Monastery, Jixian, Hebei province, built in 984 during the Liao dynasty.
The product is usually reinforced, and depending upon manufacturer, seams can be heat welded (when both membranes were brand new) or adhered with a solvent-based adhesive.
See also Longship, a CCS project storing CO2 emissions from a cement factory Greenhouse gas emissions § Buildings and construction == References ==
Most commonly used in the residence is a small room divider, sometimes called a folding shoji screen.
A crooked spire (also known as a twisted spire) is a tower that, through accident or design, contains a twist or does not point perfectly straight upwards.
Clock gables made in the 18th century are usually decorated with Louis Quinze ornaments, resulting in more decorations added to the flowers and fruits.
“Structural implications of loss of cover to main steel in reinforced concrete beams”, Structures Research Group, Polytechnic of Central London, Nov 1988, pp.
The disadvantage of epoxy resin–based terrazzo is that it can only be used for interior, not exterior, applications.
Material properties Roman concrete, like any concrete, consists of an aggregate and hydraulic mortar, a binder mixed with water that hardens over time.
At slenderness values lower than this point (occurring in specimens with a relatively short length compared to their cross section), the graph will follow the Johnson parabola; in contrast, larger slenderness values will align more closely with the Euler equation.
Woody vegetation is necessary to attract seed-dispersing faunae, and for soil development, thus facilitating further the spread of woody shrubs and trees.
The most notable installation of it to date is Europe Gate - a 4 m high sculpture made of LiTraCon blocks, erected in 2004 in observance of the entry of Hungary into the European Union.
After retirement, he was distinguished as Emeritus Professor of both the University of Buenos Aires and the Pontifical Catholic University of Argentina and Doctor Honoris Causa of the University of Buenos Aires.
Woody vegetation is necessary for a field boundary to be a wallrow; a stone wall overgrown solely with herbaceous plants is not so much a wallrow as a wall.
In Paris he met and became friends with the fellow bridge-builder Jean-Rodolph Perronnet, bequeathing him papers and a model of Westminster Bridge.
The shade these create keeps a structure cooler, their covered space is an attractive place for relaxation and escape from heat trapped inside, and the rain "shadow" created by overhangs greatly reduces the moisture content of the soil.
Room dividers are used by interior designers and architects as means to divide space into separate distinct areas.
It could be suspected that the damage would follow the New York City scenario, with extensive damage to lifelines, and brick buildings on soft ground.
26 Pr.), naturalised him as a British citizen, but in April 1752 he decided to leave England for southern France.
Lara Wall (born 31 May 2000) is a New Zealand international footballer who plays as a defender for the Wellington Phoenix of the A-League Women.
Heraud published that he had been able to triangulate pulses seen from multiple sites, in order to determine the origin of the pulses.
In 1966 a group of professors and distinguished intellectuals frustrated with the situation in the Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo founded the Universidad Nacional Pedro Henriquez Urena (UNPHU).
Encaustic tile floors exist all over Europe and North America, but are most prevalent in England where the greatest numbers of inlaid tiles were made.
Judges of the British Construction Industry's award recognised that the distinctive shape offers potential for solar panels to be installed.
A bochka roof or simply bochka (Russian: бочка, barrel) is a type of roof in traditional Russian church architecture that has the form of a half-cylinder with an elevated and pointed upper part, resembling a pointed kokoshnik.
Concrete ships are ships with hulls built primarily with concrete reinforced with steel rather than steel or wood.
Rubber shingles Rubber shingle roofs are typically made from 95% recycled material from a variety of sources including recycled tires.
The beneficial cyclic behavior of the steel material can therefore be extrapolated to an element level and thus to the overall structural level; an extremely dissipative structure can be designed using BRBs.
Moreover, it is convenient for adding connections and extrusions at the floor level due to the discrete features.
The depth of a rafter cut varies according to local building code differences in different locations.
A few minarets were built as watchtowers, landmarks or symbols of victory or glory of a Muslim Khanate or empire.
Laying a new floor Lime-ash is generally no longer available, so repairs and reconstruction are usually done using a mixture of lime putty, coal ash, Gypsum (Class A hemi hydrate fine casting plaster), unburnt loamy clay and burnt crushed tile.
While there are an infinite variety of how to produce metal roofing, thicknesses, and types for metal/finishes used, roofing is generally grouped into 2 categories: Exposed Fastener Panels and Hidden Fastener Panels.
In structural engineering, a rigid frame is the load-resisting skeleton constructed with straight or curved members interconnected by predominantly rigid connections, which resist movements induced at the joints of members.
This method uses the Rapid Prototyping techniques, 3D printing and selective laser sintering to produce very stiff, light weight components with graded porosities calculated by MPTO.
The report concluded that the merger should not be referred to the Competition Commission due to the relatively inexpensive cost of entry to the market by others.
Standards and applications Different regions in the globe have established standards to ensure uniformity in timber grading: In Europe, the EN 14081-1 standard specifies requirements for strength-graded structural timber with rectangular cross-sections.
anchor recess A formwork blockout or recess former fitted to the edge formwork of a post-tensioned concrete member, and that creates a temporary void space external to the prestressing anchor to allow the anchor block or similar to be fitted after formwork stripping.
It is an indentation cut into the rafter which consists of a "seat cut" (the face of which rests on the top plate) and a "heel cut" or "plumb cut" (the face of which lies parallel to the supporting wall), forming a shape resembling a bird's mouth.
helix building) are not considered partially guyed towers, because the hut is much smaller than the mast radiator.
History of the development The Mohr–Coulomb theory is named in honour of Charles-Augustin de Coulomb and Christian Otto Mohr.
A room divider is a screen or piece of furniture placed in a way that divides a room into separate areas.
The method employed in making a structure robust will typically depend on and be tailored to the kind of structure it is, as in steel framed building structural robustness is typically achieved through appropriately designing the system of connections between the frame's constituents.
Some common applications for helical pile foundations include wooden decks, fences, garden houses, pergolas, and carports.
The total run or total going of the stairs is the horizontal distance from the first riser to the last riser.
See also Concrete degradation Pitting corrosion (effect of sulfur and sulfides) References == Further reading ==
In other cases, equipment must be protected against being subjected to an internal vacuum (i.e., low pressure) that is lower than the equipment can withstand.
Postwar Postwar commercial airframe design focused on airliners, on turboprop engines, and then on jet engines.
Consequence class 2a, lower risk group - medium consequences of failure: 5 storey single occupancy houses.
Simpson & Stratta primarily was responsible for large-scale office parks, commercial buildings, and industrial facilities in the San Francisco Bay Area.
Quasi-static bending of beams A beam deforms and stresses develop inside it when a transverse load is applied on it.
In general, areas west of the Rockies use urban earthquakes of M7 (moment magnitude), and eastern cities use an M6.
The Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee awarded him the annual research award, Khosla National Award, in 1980 and he received the Jai Krishna Award of the Indian Society of Earthquake Technology in 1982.
Factors affecting transgranular fracture Temperature: The temperature at which a material is loaded can also affect the occurrence and characteristics of transgranular fractures.
A CJP weld transmits the full load-carrying capacity of the structural components joined, and is important for seismic safety.
It is located approximately 120 metres from the wreck buoy marking the remains of its predecessor (at 58°27′35″N 0°15′04″E).
Damage sustained in recent earthquakes, such as the 1995 Kobe earthquake, have also highlighted that the seismic behavior of a structure is highly influenced not only by the response of the superstructure, but also by the response of the foundation and the ground as well.
Terrazzo Terrazzo consists of a colored element binder or matrix and marble chips mixed to specified proportions.
STAAD can be used for analysis and design of all types of structural projects from plants, buildings, and bridges to towers, tunnels, metro stations, water/wastewater treatment plants and more.
The response is described here by the relative movement of the mass of this system in relation to its support.
Understanding the interaction between the pavement structure and subgrade soil is therefore essential for ensuring long-term performance and stability.
In England the term is constantly used by auctioneers to describe the raised convex decorations under the bowl of stone or terracotta vases.
The major distinction of this approach is that the tables are lifted either with a crane transport fork or by material platform elevators attached to the side of the building.
In addition to roofs, other larger natural or man-made objects and structures have also been used as snow guards (also known as snow fences) on steep sloping hills to lessen the effects of avalanches in valley regions.
In 2022, plans were submitted for the park to construct an alpine coaster, known as Plantation Coaster.
Densifiers address this problem by binding to available lime in a pozzolanic fashion, creating additional cementitious material and strengthening the surface.
A gable roof on a church tower (gable tower) is usually called a 'cheese wedge roof' (Käsbissendach) in Switzerland.
Typically organizations such as DOT PHMSA, ISO, ASTM and ASME specify the guidelines for the different types of pressure vessels.
During the past two decades, the ownership has transitioned from Bill Lantz, Tom Jones and Jim Nebraska to Stephen J.
by Dr Hang Wang and Professor Hubert Chanson, School of Civil Engineering, University of Queensland External links List of Fords and Irish Bridges in the UK
In the Tokugawa shogunate, the karamon gates were a powerful symbol of authority reflected in architecture.
Unlike active systems which inhibit water flow through drainage pipes, passive systems temporarily detain water on the surface of the roof by lengthening the path the water must take in order to reach outlet drains.
For instance, house Quetzalcoatl in Costa Rica is composed of five full domes and four half domes using the earthbag technique.
The practical significance of liquid metal embrittlement is revealed by the observation that several steels experience ductility losses and cracking during hot-dip galvanizing or during subsequent fabrication.
A bridge over the Krishna River in India has been approved in October 2022 that will be a CSS bridge design.
Copper pipes must be lagged (that is, insulated) or run through a conduit or plumbed into the building above the slab.
Continuous flight augering (CFA), also known as auger cast piling, is a technique used in construction to create a concrete deep foundation.
However, the mechanical behavior of FRCMs is very complex, therefore the constitutive relationship is not sufficient to characterise their mechanical behavior.
German engineer Hugo Junkers first flew all-metal airframes in 1915 with the all-metal, cantilever-wing, stressed-skin monoplane Junkers J 1 made of steel.
Liquid roofing Liquid roofing includes: Asphalt roll roofing including single and double coverage types.
Once reinforcement was introduced to the 3D-printed concrete structure, these impacts were greater than conventional construction methods, specifically for global warming and smog formation potential.
The first commercial wall in the UK, The Foundry Climbing Centre, was built in Sheffield in 1991, traditionally England's centre for climbing due to its proximity to the Peak District.
More weather-resistant than flat roofs May allow an attic to be turned into living space if the pitch is sufficient to at least allow dormers.
RFR was placed in judicial liquidation in late 2015 due to financial problems largely stemming from its subsidiary RFR Gros Oeuvre + (RFR GO+).
Engineers often evaluate structural loads based upon published regulations, contracts, or specifications.
This process can be repeated numerous times and in 2009 alone, Shaw's Evergreen facility recycled over 100 million pounds of carpet.
A 1968 Soviet popular science book Homo Aquaticus writes: "It so happened that after the 1967 expedition, an order was issued to dissolve the club".
Animal shelters may have board roofs which are a single layer with small gaps between the boards to allow light and ventilation.
The material was used by the United States Department of Energy and its contractor, Rockwell International, in an attempt to handle the radioactive waste from contaminated ponds in the Rocky Flats Plant for burial in Nevada desert.
Similar techniques had to be used as workers trenched the seafloor for the three pipelines connecting the island to the shore.
It was also the world's tallest bridge from 1937 to 1993, and remains the tallest bridge in the United States.
This gives the bridge an unfinished saw-toothed appearance when viewed from the side or below, and makes the design very easy to identify.
Mechanical properties These bolts are equivalent to ASTM A325 bolts in application and geometry, but are made to a higher strength.
It is a low-cost membrane, but when properly applied in appropriate places, its warranted life-span has reached 30 years and its expected lifespan has reached 50 years.
He then conducted post-doctoral research at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) in 1940 and at Technische Hochschule München from 1940 to 1945.
In 2003, the company and a former competitor stated that such fittings were not being used in some countries in Europe, in favour of welding.
a cripple wall, a framed wall that extends from the stem wall or foundation slab to the floor joists.
The S-FEM is largely the linear version of S-PIM, but with most of the properties of the S-PIM and much simpler.
See also Nine-Dragon Wall Siheyuan - a traditional residential compound, whose layout normally includes a "spirit screen".
Factors affecting fatigue Welding residual stresses During the welding process, residual stresses can present themselves in the area of the weld, either in the heat affected zone or fusion zone.
Similarly to roof-integrated designs, water collected in the trays can either be ponded within a porous media or free standing within the tray.
The silicon tetrahedra are arranged so that they share an edge with calcium(1), and silicon(2) shares edges with the calcium(2) and calcium(3) polyhedral.
After newspaper news, the experiment attracted attention of authorities and scientist, and during Ichthyander-67 the habitat operated for two weeks.
Velcro on each end of the mat allows a near-seamless connection to additional mats for tumbling runs or expansive areas.
It has received growing interest for the past two decades in the natural building and sustainability movements.
As of 2009, few such buildings in the area had undergone the relatively inexpensive seismic retrofit to correct the condition.
In regions with strong winds and heavy rain, gable roofs are built with a steep pitch in order to prevent the ingress of water.
Awards The design has achieved several awards: Keep Britain Tidy "Best practice street cleansing" (2010) Design Council "Best practice for reducing crime" (2012) It has also been accredited as: Home Office "PAS68 approved" (a classification for vehicle security barriers) for counter-terrorism use.
During the Kamakura period, Zen Buddhism spread to Japan and the karahafu was employed in many Zen temples.
On the undeformed initial surface, the Gaussian curvature of the cylinder is 0, satisfying the compatibility condition.
At 4000 feet (1219 m), the highest glass floor above ground is the novel outdoor application of the Grand Canyon Skywalk, operated by the Hualapai Indian tribe.
The Utah Seismic Safety Commission (USSC) is a legislatively created independent advisory board that tends to seismic-hazard issues in Utah, United States.
Products which incorporate limestone, fly ash, blast furnace slag, and other useful materials with pozzolanic properties into the mix, are being tested and used.
a stem wall, a concrete wall that extends from the foundation slab to the cripple wall or floor joists.
The design solutions depend on the fluid flow, which indicates that the coupling between the fluid and the structure is resolved in the design problems.
Semi-submersible vessels are able to transform from a deep to a shallow draft by deballasting (removing ballast water from the hull), thereby becoming surface vessels.
In 1995, a laser rangefinder monitoring instrument detected a rogue wave, which became known as the Draupner wave.
Without adhering to a maintenance routine or implementing an inspection process, oil can seep into the parts, causing unbalance.: In some cases, vibration is desired, and a rotor is deliberately unbalanced to serve as a vibrator.
It is designed to work with the Imote2 smart sensor platform, and is optimized for structural health monitoring applications.
Farokh Engineer lauded Hodgkiss as the best and the most popular Chairman Lancashire County Cricket Club ever had.
Ronan Point On 16 May 1968, the 22-story residential tower Ronan Point in the London Borough of Newham collapsed when a relatively small gas explosion on the 18th floor caused a structural wall panel to be blown away from the building.
The tallest guyed tower is currently the 2,060 feet (630 m) KRDK-TV mast in Traill County, North Dakota, United States.
Aristoteles Iraklis Philippidis (known as Aris Phillips, 1915–1985) was a scholar in the field of applied mechanics, and made contributions to the mechanics of materials, especially to the theory of plasticity.
He graduated from the Praktikon Lykeum Athens in 1932 and got Diploma Engineering degree from the National Technical University of Athens.
Unfortunately, it is the theoretical value assuming the rotor was spinning in free space so it does not relate to actual operating conditions.
The hydro-mechanical expansion of the damaged siliceous aggregate surrounded by calcium-rich hardened cement paste is responsible for the development of a network of cracks in concrete.
Historically, fusuma were painted, often with scenes from nature such as mountains, forests or animals.
After Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Sandy large numbers of houses in parts of Louisiana, New York and New Jersey were raised to avoid future flooding.
In Mediterranean climates with lower snow loads high roof pitches and their greater consumption of materials and labor are unnecessary.
Later life Chatterton continued working until 1999 when the political situation again became unstable and she retired and returned to the UK.
Burnish setting, also known as flush, gypsy, or shot setting is a setting technique used in stonesetting.
Aluminum beams are fabricated as telescoping units which allows them to span supports that are located at varying distances apart.
The global equilibrium of the transfer system must perfectly balance the downward load from the discontinued columns with the upward reaction forces of the continuous supporting columns.
REZAI-JORABI, H., “Subjective Structures”, Journal of the Singapore Institute of Architects, No.213, May 2002, pp.
The 780 Third Avenue 50-story concrete frame office building in Manhattan uses concrete shear walls for bracing and an off-center core to allow column-free interiors.
Masonry infills Most prevalent type are these: RC frames with concrete infill walls, commonly referred to as dual systems, are typically used in earthquake prone areas like Turkey, Colombia, and Greece.
Gabriel Lamé and Émile Clapeyron studied of the dome of the Saint Isaac's Cathedral with the help of the force and funicular polygons (1823).
Topical coverage includes theory and observation of seismic waves, specific earthquakes, the structure of the Earth, earthquake sources, hazard and risk estimation, and earthquake engineering.
Many precision industrial processes cannot take place if the machinery is being affected by vibration.
He returned to Dublin as a lecturer at the Dublin Institute of Technology becoming Head of the Department of Civil and Structural Engineering in 1992- a post he held until 2014.
Typically made of wood, the bochka roof was extensively used both in church and civilian architecture in the 17th to 18th centuries.
They are attractive, smooth and cool, and damage can be repaired very easily as they are made in small square size, usually 150 mm to 225 mm.
See also Yield surface Stress–energy tensor Tensile stress von Mises yield criterion == References ==
An impact load is one whose time of application on a material is less than one-third of the natural period of vibration of that material.
Of course, another canceling vector I 3 ′ {\displaystyle \mathbf {I} _{3}^{'}} can exist, which is the impulse vector with the same magnitude as I 3 {\displaystyle \mathbf {I} _{3}} but with an opposite arrow direction.
To meet the requirement that design strength be higher than maximum loads, building codes prescribe that, for structural design, loads are increased by load factors.
The standard depth at the bearing ends has been established at 7+1⁄2 inches (190 mm) for all Joist Girders.
As of 2003, NCSEA represented 12,000 individual engineers, who are members of local state associations.
This method is used where a building is so thin that one system cannot provide adequate strength or stiffness.
Its use is recommended for frames that are taller than they are wide, and therefore behave similar to a beam cantilevered up from the ground.
The Euler formula could be used to plot a failure curve, but it would not be accurate below a certain l k {\displaystyle {\frac {l}{k}}} value, the critical slenderness ratio.
Introduction With conventional structural materials, it has been difficult to achieve simultaneous improvement in multiple structural functions, but the increasing use of composite materials has been driven in part by the potential for such improvements.
(It was called "Coulomb's equation" by Karl von Terzaghi in 1942.) (Terzaghi 1942) combined it with the principle of effective stress.
In popular culture A very early appearance in film occurs in the 1914 Charlie Chaplin film Laughing Gas, where Chaplin uses a sweeper to clean the waiting-room floor of a dentist.
After the war, the demolition of the towers was often considered not feasible and many remain to this day, with some having been converted for alternative use.
He has been recognised for his contributions to engineering and was named 'Designer of the Year' by Singaporean President Tony Tan in the 2016 President's Design Awards.
In comparison, kitchen, living room and bathroom ceilings would normally be finished in smoother skip-trowel or orange peel texture for their higher durability and ease of cleaning.
The Catalan vaulting technique in particular made it possible to build spectacular structures [...].
This also meant that the loads carried by the panel could not be redistributed to other adjacent panels, because there was no route for the forces to follow.
The vessel is then pressurised for a specified period, usually 30 or more seconds, and if specified, the expansion will be measured by reading off the amount of liquid that has been forced into the measuring tube by the volume increase of the pressurised vessel.
The refractory-lining can be vibra cast insulation with anchors, abrasion resistant refractory in hex mesh, gunned insulating refractory, or poured insulating refractory.
In 1978 Stratta became an independent forensic consultant, where he worked on the 1978 Hartford Civic Center roof collapse and the 1979 Kemper Arena roof collapse.
Due to the low cost of producing them, concrete frames are often used when building damns, bridges, and buildings.
This observation led to considering the opening at the crack tip as a measure of fracture toughness.
This is in large part because current processes are still effective in many construction applications.
The configuration adopted for web access holes affects how the beam joint will bend when under stress.
Consider that each force system causes a displacement field, with the displacements measured at the external force's point of application referred to as d i P {\displaystyle d_{i}^{P}} and d i Q {\displaystyle d_{i}^{Q}} .
Initially in 1984 in response to a NASA call for housing designs for future human settlements on the Moon and on Mars, he proposed using Moon dust to fill the plastic Superadobe tubes and velcroing together the layers (instead of using barbed wire).
Mitigation Design improvements There is a growing interest in reducing carbon emissions related to concrete from both the academic and industrial sectors, especially with the possibility of future carbon tax implementation.
Series A Energy Research Abstracts Notes Note: An apparent alternate title is "Seismological Society of America, Bulletin" with the abbreviation "Seismol.
Artesonado or Spanish ceiling is a term for "a type of intricately joined wooden ceiling in which supplementary laths are interlaced into the rafters supporting the roof to form decorative geometric patterns", found in Spanish architecture.
Demolition plans must be submitted within two years, and a demolition permit must be issued within 3.5 years (from the date of the original compliance order), and the actual demolition must be completed within seven years of the original compliance order.
His idea, which he called mur neutralisant (neutralizing wall), involved the insertion of heating/cooling pipes between large layers of glass.
Technical details The cavity between the two skins may be either naturally or mechanically ventilated.
The process is the first step in structure relocation in which the building is moved to a different location.
Then the vector value of the resultant force would be determined by the missing edge of the polygon.
It is offered in a roll and plank format making it versatile and easy to install in large and small spaces.
Roman concrete differs from modern concrete in that the aggregates often included larger components; hence, it was laid rather than poured.
These foundations extend below the frost line and may have a drain pipe which helps groundwater drain away.
Granolithic Granolithic is composed of cement and fine aggregate mortar, the aggregate being granite chippings, which will give the hard wearing quality of the finish.
The monorail's track linked display buildings and transported visitors up the steep slope of the plantation.
The weld access hole or rat hole is a structural engineering technique in which a part of the web of an I-beam or T-beam is cut out at the end or ends of the beam.
Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America (BSSA) is a bimonthly peer reviewed scientific journal published by the Seismological Society of America.
When asbestos was banned in ceiling treatments by the Clean Air Act in the United States in 1963, popcorn ceilings fell out of favor in much of the country.
Retrieved May 12, 2012.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) Brown, Matthew (July 3, 1990).
In the late 1950s Polish authorities decided to lift it and tow it to another location to be converted into swimming pools, but during that operation it began sinking again, so it was abandoned in shallow water, where it has remained since.
The organization estimated that the 3D-printed concrete walls saved about 15% per square foot in building costs.
Also, unlike their weaker counterparts they may not be coated by hot-dip galvanization, mechanical deposition, or electroplating.
The forceful motion also adds significantly to the loading stress on insulators and electricity pylons, raising the risk of mechanical failure of either.
One of the key advances in building the Sydney Opera House was the use of post-tensioned concrete to reinforce the components of the shells.
The force vectors show the direction and point of application and are labelled with their magnitude.
An historical example that shares some features with FRCM is the association of sun-dried clay and straw for the production of bricks in Mesopotamia, or the Roman cocciopesto.
References Alain Fabre, 2005, Diccionario etnolingüístico y guía bibliográfica de los pueblos indígenas sudamericanos: AIKANA[1]
Some have asserted that there is at least a possible degree of first-language acquisition beyond the critical period.
It served as the German civilian occupation regime in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and the western part of the Byelorussian SSR during the Eastern Front of World War II.
The resolution, on sign language and professional sign-language interpreters, draws on Deaf studies and linguistics.
After finishing his intermediate education, he attended the University of Karachi's Bachelor of Civil Engineering program, which he graduated from in 1952.
He studied architecture at the National College of Arts, Lahore because he found it was a blend of art and engineering.
The reparations package was raised as a key issue at the first meeting of the First Peoples' Assembly of Victoria in 2020, and Andrews acknowledged that it was long overdue.
On 18 June 2022, a local court ordered his exhumation for postmortem examination as a result of petition filed by a civilian.
Despite the pressures imposed on her by her family, and by society, Amal goes on to become the first woman paleontologist to work with men in the mountains of Pakistan to look for fossils of ancient whales.
Gubbi Gubbi, also spelt Kabi Kabi, is a language of Queensland in Australia, formerly spoken by the Kabi Kabi people of South-east Queensland.
Nazar later played comedic role in Pakistan's first feature film Teri Yaad and Pakistan's first silver jubilee film Pheray (1949).
He is Present Central Coordination Committee Member of MQM, He also served as Zonal committee member of Sindh for the MQM.
Numerous societies have undergone forced assimilation following the establishment of plantation, occupation, or settler colonies.
I'm not into the idea of being a celebrity or having people know or follow me." In February 2017, she released the anthem for the Pakistan Super League franchise Islamabad United.
Haub characterized this figure as an estimate that required "selecting population sizes for different points from antiquity to the present and applying assumed birth rates to each period".
She was involved with British Muslim Awards from its inception, presenting the awards at the inaugural ceremony in 2013 and in 2014.
Where there was language replacement, in some cases, such as Italy, it took place in the early imperial stage, while in others, native languages only totally succumbed to Latin after the fall of the Empire, as was likely the case with Gaulish.
This occurred due to the close proximity of the speakers of Barzani Jewish Neo-Aramaic and the dialect Zakho.
Return to MQM On 6 April 2022, Hussain tweeted "I am extremely embarrassed [for betraying] MQM leader Altaf Hussain.
Awards and recognition Pride of Performance Award by the President of Pakistan in 2010 References External links Rabia Zuberi at Asia Art Archive
In 1830, the szlachta, began the November Uprising and after its failure, Nicholas I began a systematic policy of cracking down on Polish influence in the lands of modern Belarus that were claimed by Russian tsars as White Russia.
This is a list of self-proclaimed republics in Ukraine that emerged following the 2014 Euromaidan Revolution.
It does what the best stories do: it gives us imaginative access to a human moment, and a time that might otherwise pass us by".
On 25 August 2008, Nawaz Sharif announced that Saeeduzzaman Siddiqui would be Pakistan Muslim League (N) and Jamaat-e-Islami nominee to replace Pervez Musharraf as President of Pakistan.
Controversies Legal issues In 2003 Akram's then live-in girlfriend, Marijana Mihic, called the police to report him for alleged violent assault against her.
Paul Benedict (1986) argued that it is not actually Pa-Hng, or even Hmongic, but a separate branch of the Miao–Yao language family.
She worked in nearly thirty films as a lead actress in India from 1933 to 1947, shifting to character roles in later years, following her move to Pakistan.
Early life Haleem was born in Lucknow, British India, he was the son of Barrister Muhammad Wasim, the first Advocate General of Pakistan, and the pre-independence Advocate General of Uttar Pradesh.
In all, 61 tribes in Western Oregon were terminated, more than the total tribes terminated under all other individual acts.
China At least one million members of China's Muslim Uyghur minority have been detained in mass detention camps in Xinjiang, termed "reeducation camps", aimed at changing the political thinking of detainees and their religious beliefs.
History In the Yishuv Among the Yishuv (the first to return to the land of Israel), there was a strong feeling of sh'lilat ha-golah (Hebrew: שלילת הגולה "negation of the diaspora/Exile"), which often included the exchange of Diaspora surnames for purely Hebrew ones.
In 1862, Circassian refugees from the Shapsug tribe arrived in the Kurdish areas of Ahlat and Adilcevaz and settled in the three Kurdish villages of Yoğurtyemez, Xanik (Çukurtarla), Develik and founded the village of Koxiş (Yolçatı).
They gradually became conspicuous by their absence from festival activities where ritual sacrifices for the health of the emperor and well-being of the empire took place, behavior that carried a "whiff of both sacrilege and treason".
The occupation of the Low Countries by the Dukes of Burgundy also brought Burgundian into contact with Dutch; e.g., the word for gingerbread couque derives from Middle Dutch kooke (cake).
The same situation happens in European populations of non-Spanish origin, like Italian and German populations in Chile and Venezuela; this is voluntarily as many of them still speak their native languages, but mostly as second languages.
While still echoing its original meaning, contemporary usage of the phrase usually takes a more open interpretation of assimilation or, in the case of the diaspora, the maintenance of Irish heritage.
Put simply, denationalized citizenship is when communities have a stronger sense of belonging and identification with smaller cultural and social groups than with their nation-state.
operated facilities and programs based on treaties, judicial determinations, and Acts of Congress." The IHS is "the principal Federal health care provider and advocate for the health of American Indians and Alaska Natives".
The plain-aspirated distinction is neutralized and realized with voiceless release in syllable-final position and before another consonant; the aspirates are much more fortis than this voiceless release.
The project was inspired by the book Language and Nationalism, and was organized by four non-governmental organizations from each of the countries included: P.E.N.
In linguistics Linguists use this term to designate activities associated with metalanguage, a language composed of the entirety of words forming linguistic terminology (for example, syntax, semantics, phoneme, lexeme...
More modern classifications group it in the Venezuelan Cariban branch and Mapoyo-Tamanaku subgroup, with closely related Pauxiána and Sapará.
In China, Pa-Hng speakers are classified as Yao, even though their language is Hmongic rather than Mienic.
This is because many ancestors of the present-day Transylvanian Saxons stemmed from contemporary Luxembourg as early as the 12th century, especially in the area of contemporary Sibiu County (German: Kreis Hermannstadt), as part of the Ostsiedlung process.
The European Court of Human Rights is the only international court with jurisdiction to deal with cases brought by individuals rather than states.
Aikanã (sometimes called Tubarão, Corumbiara/Kolumbiara, or Huari/Uari/Wari) is an endangered language isolate spoken by about 200 Aikanã people in Rondônia, Brazil.
He wrote the BAFTA, BIFA and London Film Critics Circle award-winning film East Is East (1999), adapted from his 1996 Olivier-nominated play of the same name.
After his retirement from professional competition, he managed the national team on several occasions, including during the 1966 and 1970 Asian Games.
Affiliation Like the two other languages of Utupua (Tanimbili and Amba), Asumbuo belongs to the Temotu subgroup of the Oceanic family, itself part of the Austronesian phylum.
The GCI is published by the Martin Prosperity Institute, which belongs to the University of Toronto's Rotman School of Management.
They describe it as an "indifferent, and sometimes a negative stance towards Ukrainian national-statehood traditions and aspirations, and often as active support of Russian culture and of Russian imperial policies".
Environmental factors Interactive communication and parental inputs Psychosocial deprivation can cause language delays in children.
Akhtar was also included in the American squad for the 1982 ICC Trophy, but again played only a single game, against Gibraltar.
The trial for the Anfal campaign was still underway on 30 December 2006, when Saddam Hussein was executed for his role in the unrelated Dujail massacre.
The proselyte immerses in a mikveh to effect the conversion formally; a male proselyte must also be circumcised before the immersion can occur (mila leshem giur) A "gate proselyte" is a resident alien who lives in the Land of Israel and follows some Jewish customs.
He also directed three films, all in Urdu: Aakhri Station (1965) in East Pakistan, and Tum Mere Ho (1968) and Aashna (1970) in West Pakistan.
Mohsin Hasan Khan (Urdu: محسن حسن خان; born 15 March 1955) is a Pakistani cricket coach, former actor and former cricketer who played in 48 Test matches and 75 One Day Internationals between 1977 and 1986 mainly as an opening batsman.
Assassination attempt On 28 March 2014, Raza was attacked by a group of assailants reportedly members of the Taliban-affiliate Lashkar-e-Jhangvi for his anti-LeJ views.
India In 2014, he made his debut in Bollywood opposite Bipasha Basu in Vikram Bhatt's Creature 3D, for which he was nominated at Filmfare Award for Best Male Debut category.
The language is thus classified as critically endangered and is predicted to become dormant within the next decade.
In fact, he wrote 36 novels of 'Jasoosi Duniya' and 79 novels of 'Imran Series' after his recovery from depression.
Over the next few seasons, he also made appearances for the Public Works Department and Pakistan International Airlines B, with his last first-class appearance coming in March 1972.
Bound pronouns are morphemes in a verbal complex that refer to some participant but are not class specific.
He has also served with the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on their medical commission and was in the news due to his work in tackling fitness problems faced by fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar.
Students also came from the regions around Parry Sound, Ottawa Valley, Marathon, Chapleau, Temagami, New Liskeard.
Children in school whose dialect does not closely resemble the standard form of speaking may not receive the same education.
During his college days, he had Amarnath Jha and Firaq Gorakhpuri as teachers, both of whom would end up among India's greatest intellectuals and recipients of the Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award in the country.
Something that a lot of families struggle with is they will put their child in a school that is primarily English-speaking, and the child will get discriminated against and not get the same tools that other students are getting as far as learning goes because of the way they speak or sound.
Consider the following intransitive sentence, which consists of just a verb: Noun phrases do not need to form a constituent on the surface, so nouns can be separated from their modifiers (though the modifiers must then have affixes that identify the noun class of the noun they modify).
They found that the model successfully learned English word order, mappings between word labels and semantic meanings of words (i.e.
The Belarusian history within the Russian Empire is associated with the history of Belarus from the Partitions of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth to the October Revolution when the present-day Belarus' lands were made part of the Russian Empire.
He said the specific legal ruling (fatwa) of the 13–14th century theologian Ibn Taymiyya on the Mongol Empire has been wrongfully used in the 20th and 21st centuries by both jihadist and pacifist groups to justify their positions.
A television adaptation of the novel was broadcast by Pakistan Television Corporation in 1986, starring Roohi Bano.
The revival of the Meitei Mayek script in schools and the growing interest in indigenous cultural heritage contribute to broader preservation strategies.
They had a son, Salman Majid Carim, who was to be her only child, but the marriage ended in divorce.
The Dongjia of Majiang County, Guizhou are also officially classified as She people, but speak a Western Hmongic language closely related to Chong'anjiang Miao (重安江苗语).
On the opposite, Glottolog does not classify Basum within Central Tibetan but leaves it unclassified within Tibetic languages.
When Wi-jún-jon returned to his tribe on the Missouri River steamboat Yellow Stone, his fellow Assiboine initially were interested in and amused by his descriptions of the power of the United States.
Tibet, having been a self-governed province of China, has been completely annexed by China since 1951 with the Tibetan Government in Exile (TGIE) claiming that 1.2 million Tibetans died from the actions of the Chinese administration from 1951 to 1984.
According to her sister, Rubina Yasmeen, her family had travelled to Istanbul, Turkey to be with her in her last days.
He is inclined to select colleagues not for their professional qualities but for their personal devotion to him, predominantly relatives and fellow-villagers".
Early Germanic law reflects the coexistence of Roman and Germanic cultures during the Migration period in applying separate laws to Roman and Germanic individuals, notably the Lex Romana Visigothorum (506), the Lex Romana Curiensis and the Lex Romana Burgundionum.
Ignorance of home culture: TCKs are often lacking in knowledge about their home nation, culture, town, or family.
He also addresses the effects of what is known as the Dawes Act, by which communal reservation land was allotted to individual households, and the blood quantum rules established at the time for enrollment in different tribes.
Official recognition In 1999, Catalan and Sardinian were among the twelve minority languages officially recognised as Italy's "historical linguistic minorities" by the Italian State under Law No.
Political views Partition and migration to Pakistan Being a communist, Elia opposed the partition of India.
There are three reflexive (anaphoric) pronouns: Adjectives When adjectives are used in an attributive role, adjectives do not decline.
The Komo language is mentioned in the constitution of the Benishangul-Gumuz state of Ethiopia, and therefore it is actually warranted higher prestige than other surrounding languages.
He was an effective spinner who has played for Northern Gymkhana Karachi and Sheffield Collegiate C.C.
Personal life, death and legacy Sadik married Azhar Sadik, a Pakistani army officer who died earlier in 2011.
With time it appears that the forms of the dative case took over the other case endings in the plural (a tendency found to a lesser extent in other dialects).
The regulation was written by the Ministry of Education and was issued in July 1912 by the Progressive Conservative government of premier Sir James P.
Jolkesky (2016) also notes that there are lexical similarities with Kanoe, Kwaza, and Nambikwara due to contact.
Several presidential decrees and directives from state security and intelligence organizations had specifically focused on Iraqi Turkmen.
Early and personal life Khan is the son of former Pakistan cricket captain & wicketkeeper Moin Khan.
Pawley, Andrew; Hammarström, Harald (2017-12-04), Palmer, Bill (ed.), "The Trans New Guinea family", The Languages and Linguistics of the New Guinea Area, De Gruyter, ISBN 978-3-11-029525-2, retrieved 2024-09-10{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link)
History Pashtunization has historically taken place whenever non-Pashtuns have settled in Pashtun-dominated areas, leading to them adopting the Pashtun culture and language over generations.
While the Tetrarchy itself didn't last long, Jonathan Bardill says that it made some permanent changes to the empire.
Folklorists collected vernacular literature from the mid-nineteenth century and by the end of the century a number of writers were establishing an original literature.
The attraction brings the chance to visit over 11 cultural experiences, including a variety of cuisines, without having to travel far and with the comfort of knowing one is in a safe and controlled space.
Isa, stated that "the apex court doesn't have force, and if he wants to give statement, they would not stop him".
In the 20th century, hundreds of Faetano and Cellese people left Italy and settled in the Toronto area of Canada, and in small pockets of the United States, such as upstate New York (The demonyms for the people from Faeto and Celle di San Vito are Faetani and Cellesi, respectively).
When the Spaniards arrived, they converted the natives to Christianity and changed their religious beliefs regarding the fertility rites.
Initially, the alphabet took the following form: a, b, c, cc, cь, ç, çь, d, e, ə, f, g, ƣ, h, i, j, k, kk, ⱪ, l, m, n, u, p, pp, ᶈ, q, ꝗ, r, s, ꟍ, ꟍꟍ, ş, şь, t, tt, t̨, y, v, x, ҳ, ӿ, z, ⱬ, zz, ƶ, ƶƶ, ƶь, ' Soon after, capital letters and the letters O o and were introduced.
Vocational training at the school included chopping wood, vegetable gardening, water retrieval from the lake, and baking for the boys, and sewing, ironing, dressmaking, baking, and washing for the girls.
Minal then, appeared as College student in Horror series Dil Nawaz with Neelam Muneer and Wahaj Ali.
The first big wave of Caucasian refugees to Kurdistan was in 1864 when 15,000 to 20,000 refugees settled in Sarıkamış, founding new villages and settling in abandoned Greek and Armenian villages.
The unrest, which was supported by the Russian military and intelligence services, belongs to the early stages of the Russo-Ukrainian War.
The act also called for disposition of federally owned property which had been bought for the administration of Indian affairs, and for termination of federal services which these Indians received under federal recognition.
In linguistics, the innateness hypothesis, also known as the nativist hypothesis, holds that humans are born with at least some knowledge of linguistic structure.
Its name itself is a pun, as 粵 (Cantonese) and 越 (to exceed) are homophones, both pronounced as yuè/jyut6.
See also Australian English Pitcairn Islands Norfuk language References External links Mühlhäusler, Peter (2019).
Since joining Strings in 2010, Nayani has been extensively touring with them and fulfilling his dream of playing at Berklee College of Music.
In succession these were: 21 March 1939 – 24 August 1943: Konstantin von Neurath, former Foreign Minister of Nazi Germany (1932–1938) and Minister without Portfolio (1938–1945).
In popular culture Tchaikovsky's Symphony No 2 in C minor, Op 17, is nicknamed the "Little Russian" from its use of Ukrainian folk tunes.
She was the younger sister of Shamim Ejaz and her mother Aziz-Un-Nisa was a poet and writer and her grandfather Ejaz Hussain Alvi was also a poet and writer.
Salih followed the order and charged Ibn al-Muhallab's brother, Abd al-Malik, with supervising the torture.
Most of Luhansk Oblast and part of Donetsk Oblast had been controlled by pro-Russian separatists since 2014, while the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia Oblasts were invaded by Russia in 2022.
The areas which were controlled by Russia at the time amount to about 15% of Ukraine's total area, more than 90,000 km2 (35,000 sq mi)—roughly the size of Hungary or Portugal.
Those found in violation of this policy were to have government rations withheld for up to ten days, and second-time offenders could have their rations withheld for at least fifteen days (but no more than thirty), or could be incarcerated for up to 30 days.
Gaza will turn into a Taliban-style Islamic emirate with Iranian and Syrian support." Al-Ayyam columnist, Abd Al-Nasser Al-Najjar, called Hamas "the new Taliban" and wrote: "How will the mini-state of the new Taliban [i.e.
They also already had trade relations and contacts with one another through the seafaring Mediterranean cultures like the Phoenicians and the Greeks.
The term Disneyfication was coined by Lawrence Lipton in 1959, while Disneyization was coined by New York University's Peter K.
The cacuminal /ɖ/ may also be realized as an affricate [ɖːʐ], and consonant sequences /tr/ and /tːr/ may be pronounced as [ʈʂ] and [ʈːʂ] among speakers.
Postnational and Transnational citizenship Denationalized citizenship, postnational and transnational citizenship are frequently misused and used interchangeably, therefore a distinction between the terms is important.
The film was based on a Noor Jehan earlier hit Bhai Jaan (1945) and looks at how a man inadvertently ruins the lives of his wife and daughter.
There also exists a construction that masks itself as a relative clause, but is really a repetition of the subject of the sentence.
He founded the Muslim Institute for Research and Planning in London in 1972 and campaigned through his writings for political Islam.
On April 14, 1956, the Federal Register published the final roll of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde which contained 862 names.
Hospital staff then began teaching Genie to speak General American English, which she gradually began to learn and use.
Afitti has only two phonemic tones with clear and strong downdrift, with no third tone or even downstep.
Spirit of Detroit Award by the federal government of the United States to both Ghulam Farid Sabri and Maqbool Ahmed Sabri in 1981.
Yunus was born in the town of Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh, India on 30 September 1944 (his brother being the actor Tariq Yunus).
In certain areas of Israel, particularly the mixed cities, there is a growing trend to restore the original Arabic street names that were Hebraized after 1948.
Professional career After a short stint working in engineering at Dow Chemical, in 1996 Qadhi enrolled at the Islamic University of Medinah in Medina, Saudi Arabia.
Video content and sources Yabla videos feature native speakers, and the majority are licensed from third parties, such as Telefe in Argentina, RAI in Italy, and rheinmaintv in Germany, with additional videos produced by the company.
Prime minister Liaquat Ali Khan and the Muslim League denounced the proposal as an attempt to divide the Pakistani people, thus the legislation was defeated.
In the beginning of the 1860s, both pro-Russian and pro-Polish parties in the Belarusian lands had begun to realise that the decisive role in the upcoming conflicts was shifting to the peasantry.
He was appointed as interim coach of the Pakistan team on 3 October 2011 while the PCB formed a committee to search for a certified coach.
Sumru Özsoy organized an international conference, namely Conference on Northwest Caucasian Linguistics, at Boğaziçi University in memory of Dumézil and Esenç.
He has been professor in several universities and vice president and later president of the Atlas Linguarum Europae ("Atlas of the Languages of Europe"), also being a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy.
Motives for anglicising Wales included securing Protestant England against incursions from Catholic powers in Continental Europe and promoting the power of the Welsh Tudor dynasty in the rest of England.
Abbas is best known for his roles Adeel in Dil-e-Muztar (2013) for which he received a nomination for Best actor popular in Hum Awards and Hadi Salman in Alvida (2015) which earned him Best on-screen couple with Sanam Jung.
His other notable works include Akbari Asghari (2011), Mera Naam Yousuf Hai (2015), Tum Kon Piya (2016), Mohabbat Tumse Nafrat Hai (2017) and Koi Chand Rakh (2018).
The term was coined to highlight the "blurred" lines between geographically close locations that are clearly different in terms of culture.
560–575) that a shrine in Auvergne which "is called Vasso Galatae in the Gallic tongue" was destroyed and burnt to the ground.
The Jewish population of Bohemia and Moravia (118,000 according to the 1930 census) was virtually annihilated, with over 75,000 murdered.
Excerpts from a transcription of Pitkern The sentences below are excerpted from a longer dialogue held in 1951 between a teenage speaker of Pitkern and A.W.
In West Francia, the nucleus of what was to become France, the Frankish language was eventually extinct, but not without leaving significant traces in the emerging Romance language.
"A Mussau vocabulary, with phonological notes." In Malcolm Ross, Jeff Siegel, Robert Blust, Michael A.
He has visited the south-eastern district of Khokhrapar bordering Indian Rajasthan in February 2006 where a new railway station has been built on the Pakistan side at zero point.
Political career and religious activism After moving from Saudi Arabia to the United Kingdom, he served as the Director-General of The Islamic Foundation, a well-known scientific and research institution from 1977 to 1987.
In an official response, the Court clarified that the ruling is being misrepresented and that it does not go against the second amendment of the constitution and that the accused was released because he had already served the maximum sentence for the offense.
In the course of 1943 and 1944, the Red Army recaptured most of Ostland in their advance westwards, and many of its institutions were dissolved in late 1944 and early 1945.
Honours Kamaluddin Ahmed was elected as a fellow of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences in 2002, and in 1979 and 1983 was invited to suggest nominations for the Nobel Prize in Physics.
Barzani Jewish-Neo Aramaic stands out from these languages because it began its endangerment in the early 1900s.
In July 2010 Pakistan's leading Mobile operator Mobilink has added Naseem to its panel of brand ambassadors.
The following examples show the difference that indirect and direct possession have on the noun 'road'.
External relationships She has been difficult to classify due to the heavy influence of Chinese on the language.
The death of senior priestesses results in the loss of knowledge, as much of the language contains complex metaphorical and symbolic elements that are not documented elsewhere.
Nafis Sadik died of congestive heart failure on 14 August 2022 in the United States, at the age of 92.
In May 2009, it was made public that Christian groups had published Bibles in the Pashto and Dari languages, intended to convert Afghans from Islam to Christianity.
Guilty plea On April 27, 2010, one day before his trial was to start, Hashmi pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to provide material support to al-Qaeda in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
Anfal trial In June 2006, the Iraqi Special Tribunal announced that Saddam Hussein and six co-defendants would face trial on 21 August 2006 in relation to the Anfal campaign.
Significance Health factors Medical experts use the term cocacolonization in their medical journals representing the spread of unhealthy American foods overseas.
Classification Kaufman (1994, 2007) placed it in his Pawishiana branch, but his classification is outdated.
The term mediascape predates Appadurai's use; it was first used in trade by the American company Mediascape Corporation, formed in 1992, for the purpose of delivering rich media through the Internet and Web.
The New York Times hailed it as "smart…debut [that] is at once immigrant narrative, bildungsroman and New York City novel, with a dash of the picaresque…Naqvi is a former slam poet, and his exuberant sentences burst with the rhythms and driving power of that form while steering clear of bombast.
For example, 'one crocodile' is dawilyaba dingarrbiya, and 'two turtles' is yambilyuma yimenda, with the number prefix matching the noun class of the noun.
shame or morals." Personal threats against female broadcasters were also sent to the women's mobile phones, though it was not clear if these threats were from the same group.
In Search of the Bene Israel is an observational documentary she directed and produced, following modern descendants of the ancient Mumbai Jewish community, to which she is related on her mother's mother's side.
Annals of the Academy of Romanian Scientists: Series on History and Archaeology Sciences (in Romanian).
During May 1974 Curtiss recorded Genie's first compound noun phrases, which were the only times Genie would use the word and.
Haymes served as a co-pastor of SOMA Venice, a church within the SOMA church network, from 2020 to 2023.
For example, former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak changed his surname from Brog to Barak in 1972.
In 2019, the United Nations reported that the rate of population growth continues to decline due to the ongoing global demographic transition.
Kedwaii, along with his other companions in Aligarh, drafted the "Pakistan Scheme" on the basis of which the All India Muslim League developed the "Lahore Resolution" in 1940.
Niaz Ahmed Siddiqi (11 November 1945 – 12 April 2000) was a Pakistani cricketer from East Pakistan (which later became Bangladesh) who played in two Tests in 1967 and 1969.
The system of 'All-Russian unity' debated on two models: the French model of national assimilation, and the British model of regional countries under a common nation and identity, with the project's advocates seeing it as a 'middle ground' between both.
External links Mandaic lexicon online; Archived 2016-04-01 at the Wayback Machine Semitisches Tonarchiv: Tondokument "Ginza Einleitung"—A recording of the opening of the Ginza Rabba spoken by a Mandaean priest.
His father wanted his son to join the Police or Army, but Sheikh Mukhtar was keenly interested in theatre.
Harley also measured eventual attainment and found the two age groups made similar mistakes in syntax and lexical selection, often confusing French with the L1.
Owing to these characteristics, the Moirang dialect has attracted sustained scholarly attention, particularly in Tibeto-Burman linguistics, where it is examined for evidence relevant to the historical evolution, internal variation, and clan-based stratification of the Meitei language.
It is sometimes called Eastern Ladin since it shares the same roots as Ladin, but over the centuries, it has diverged under the influence of surrounding languages, including German, Italian, Venetian, and Slovene.
Vowels Stress In most words the primary stress falls on the penultimate vowel and secondary stresses fall on every second syllable preceding that.
Often people say the term “Ma’di Mouth” Several of the related language groups still recognize themselves as Ma’di and class themselves Ma’di people.
It would be Christoffer von Warnstedt, governor of Uppsala Castle, who would be ultimately responsible for their upkeep.
Under KMT rule, Taiwan saw the imposition of Mandarin Chinese as the sole national language, resulting in the suppression of indigenous languages, including Atayal.
Metalinguistics awareness was used as a construct in research extensively in the mid 1980s and early 1990s.
Political career Abidi was selected as the president of PPP's Karachi division after 2008's General Election.
These suffixes cover a range of meanings, from "become" or "make" to "put on", "take off", and "have".
Cree has also been incorporated into another mixed language within Canada, Nehipwat, which is a blending of Cree with Assiniboine.
Alcohol on reservations Although not enforced outside of Indian reservations at the time, alcohol was strictly forbidden on reservations.
Education and work Khan Muttaqi Nadeem had an LLB and LLM degree from islamia law college, Karachi, Pakistan.
Before any public presentation, the Declaration was signed by over 200 prominent writers, scientists, journalists, activists and other public figures from the four countries.
Contents of the Declaration The Declaration states that Bosniaks, Croats, Montenegrins and Serbs have a common standard language of the polycentric type.
Every artwork produced since then has been a clear trademark of the Disney name and, in turn, every cultural aspect in the Disney films or world has been changed to fit the Disneyfication process.
He moved to the Dallas metropolitan area in early 2019, becoming the resident scholar of the East Plano Islamic Center.
The verb system is relatively simple; verbs agree with the subject in number, person and (in North Tabasaran) class.
On 9 November 2016, Mamnoon Hussain in consultation with Nawaz Sharif appointed him as the Governor of Sindh province.
Nonetheless, the Court is said to have missed an opportunity to engage with copyright policy prevalent in India.
The South Australian Museum reported in April 2019 that it had more than 4,600 Old People in storage, awaiting reburial.
My Word!: Plagiarism and College Culture Archived 2018-12-07 at the Wayback Machine (2010) Eco, Umberto (1987) Fakes and Forgeries in Versus, Issues 46–48, republished in 1990 in The limits of interpretation pp.
Vin délimité de qualité supérieure (French pronunciation: [vɛ̃ delimite də kalite sypeʁjœʁ], "delimited wine of superior quality"), usually abbreviated as VDQS, was the second highest category of French wine, below appellation d'origine contrôlée (AOC) in rank, but above vin de pays (country wine).
The remaining competitor was a brand-new Diet flavor created specifically for the promotion - Flare (berry/citrus-flavored).
Framework does not support customers outside its supported regions, and does not endorse or support imported products.
Pepsi-Cola North America CEO Craig Weatherup was ambitiously internally restructuring the company while launching a multi-faceted development and marketing plan to expand as a "total beverage company".
References External links COMPUTERLAW (in Italian) Punto Informatico (in Italian) Zeus News (in Italian) DIGIMAG (in Italian) COPYZERO (in Italian)
The law was in part a reaction to California's passage of the California Art Preservation Act, however the New York Act provided for artists the right to disavow works that were altered against their wishes.
CISAC works in close collaboration with authors' societies and governments to ensure local laws uphold authors' rights.
As of June 2021, the Columbia Journal of Law & the Arts is the highest-ranking secondary journal at Columbia Law School and the highest-ranking journal in the world in its field.
Strategies for handling brand piracy While some experts suggest the company to go the extremes of punishing the counterfeiter, others also suggest takeover or franchisee agreements with them.
Auctions Ocean Tomo introduced the world's first public auctions of patents, trademarks and copyrights.
HOPE6 Selfness-Copyfight: From Censorship to New Business Models Video and Audio at archive.org slideshow PDF 2005-11-17 Oslo, Faculty of Engineering, organized by the NUUG.
and Ubuntu gained popularity, the UserLinux project never shipped any software and was ultimately abandoned.
On October 7, 1997, Arthur Hair receives his second patent, "System for Transmitting Desired Digital Video or Audio Signals." On April 13, 1999, SightSound Technologies sold Darren Aronofsky's Pi as a pay-per-view download, making it the first ever film to be sold as a download on the Internet.
Actual Evidence of Confusion In addition to predicting whether an "ordinary casual consumer somewhat in a hurry" would perceive confusion, a court may also consider evidence of actual confusion of the trade-marks in the marketplace.
Pelletier was named one of the "40 Illinois Attorneys Under Forty to Watch." McAndrews, Held & Malloy shareholder Herbert D.
"The Uneasy Case for Copyright: A Study of Copyright in Books, Photocopies, and Computer Programs" was an article in the Harvard Law Review by future United States Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer in 1970, while he was still a legal academic.
Mello Yello was seen as a sponsor on die-cast toy and collectible cars for both the Days of Thunder #51 Chevrolet Lumina and Kyle Petty's #42 Pontiac Grand Prix.
Chung, a native of China, was convicted by the US District Court for the Central District of California of stealing Boeing trade secrets related to the US Space Shuttle program and the Delta IV rocket.
Petersburg, Russia, where judgments made by American courts were not enforceable, and Sci-Hub did not defend the lawsuit.
The program is not fully compatible with current macOS versions and is no longer supported, with the developer stating that he is unable to create new versions due to the deprecation of the Carbon libraries.
Pakistan Pakistan is not a signatory to the WIPO Copyright Treaty or the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty.
The goal of the foundation is to contribute to the protection of Norwegian cultural heritage through sustainable use, under the motto, "Protection through use".
Department of Defense to allow contractors to infringe patents and to defend the contractor against patent infringement claims at government expense.
Background This is part of 11 district centres developed by the Delhi Development Authority in the 1970s.
(known as Commercial-NoDerivatives in 1.0) NoCommercial-NoDerivatives: Cannot be used in for-profit purpose.
The work of Tolkien fan fiction has, according to the scholar Una McCormack, garnered more than its share of attention, while large numbers of "excellent" works of fan fiction by women are overlooked.
He is the creator of the Pop Culture Detective Agency video series examining intersections of politics, masculinity, and entertainment.
See also Repatriation (cultural heritage) Footnotes References Cited works Hubert, Jane; Fforde, Cressida (2002).
Another example is IPscore—acquired in 2006 by the European Patent Office—a software application, developed by the Danish Patent and Trademark Office.
Eric Goldman has noted that there is an absence of cases that give any value to the poor man's copyright.
Features Snak supports an unlimited number of connections and channels, private chats, as well as full DCC support for file transfers and chat.
(This would be a chart prepared by the defendant or party accused of infringing the patent.) An infringement chart that allegedly shows how the product or process accused of infringement contains each claim element, thereby satisfying the all elements test for infringement.
And Barker was perhaps overshadowed by the decision of Judge Gertner, rendered the same day as the Barker decision, in quashing a subpoena served on Boston University to learn the identity of BU students, in London-Sire v.
Fair Trade Music is an independent movement dedicated to building an ethical, sustainable and transparent music ecosystem equitable for everyone in the music value chain.
The Anarchist Library is an online anarchist library and archive founded around 2007 by Aragorn!, Marco and other anarchists.
History The VDQS category was created in 1949 to fill the gap between the categories Vin de pays (VdP) and AOC, the most prestigious with correspondingly demanding requirements.
Chrome browser data The documentation contained attributes such as "ChromeInTotal" and "chrome_trans_clicks," which analysts interpreted as indicating that Google uses data from its Chrome browser to assess website quality and popularity.
As of October 2024, although the domain name is still registered, the landing page displayed a GoDaddy domain-parking page.
The name of the author is provided, spelled according to the name given on the title page of the original source (examples: Linnæus 1758, Linné 1766).
Launched in San Francisco in 2003, Bootie was the first recurring club night in the United States dedicated solely to the burgeoning art form of the bootleg mashup, and as of 2019 hosted monthly parties in cities around the globe, including Los Angeles, Paris, Boston, Munich, and New York City.
[but] does not expect that redress will result in royalties for the use of Ka Mate or provide Ngāti Toa with a veto on the performance of Ka Mate...
Label indications of sweetness – from dry to sweet – are regulated in terms of which residual sugar levels they correspond to.
Of those, 6,242 were patent examiners (almost all of whom were assigned to examine utility patents; only 99 were assigned to examine design patents) and 388 were trademark examining attorneys; the rest are support staff.
Eight McAndrews, Held & Malloy attorneys were honored as intellectual property law leaders by Law & Politics (2010).
It is 30 minutes from Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station It is 1 hr from New Delhi Railway Station It has its own bus terminal, popularly known as Nehru Place Bus Terminal.
The logo also appears on the annual All-Star Game with the host city and year along with the World Series.
The reasoning is that the purpose of a computer is not to receive television broadcasts nor are there any broadcasts on Internet since you have to request that the content is streamed to you.
Salzberger received his LL.B from the Hebrew University Faculty of Law in 1987 (first in his class) and concomitantly obtained a B.A.
Events such as Coutellia, an international cutlery festival, prominently feature the Le Thiers knife, with the festival's official poster often showcasing its design.
These tools presuppose that students are prone to plagiarizing and that instructors should use advanced techniques to uncover it.
The first P2P program to receive widespread attention in the media and popular consciousness was Napster.
Neither party was happy with the decision, so King Richard II was called upon to give his personal verdict.
The auctions have included business method patents and the rights to Jimi Hendrix's music recordings.
Despite claims by numerous anthropologists and ethnologists, such as Plutarco Naranjo, regarding the millennial usage of ayahuasca, compelling evidence substantiating its pre-Columbian consumption is yet to be firmly established.
He has also lectured at law schools including Columbia, Fordham, Houston, Kansas, Loyola (Chicago), University of Pennsylvania, Stanford, Texas and Yale.
The physical object can be measured using 3D scanning technologies like CMMs, laser scanners, structured light digitizers, or industrial CT scanning (computed tomography).
A geographical indication (GI) is a name or sign used on certain products which corresponds to a specific geographical location or origin (e.g., a town, region, or country).
12 and 14) Copyright must be granted automatically, and not based upon any "formality", such as registrations, as specified in the Berne Convention.
Stocktown x South Africa Stocktown X South Africa is a road movie directed by Swedish-based directors Teddy Goitom and Benjamin Taft.
However, the CAS was criticized for a perceived lack of public input, perverse incentives between media corporations and ISPs, harsh mitigation measures, and reversal of burden of proof standards.
Reception Jason Parker, Assistant editor for Download.com, wrote for CNET Reviews on May 26, 2005, "If you want a great IRC chat client for Mac, Snak is hands-down the best in the category." == References ==
After a short time in private practice as an attorney at Coghlan, Welsh & Guest, she read for an LLM at the University of Cambridge in 2000.
The Artists Authorship Rights Act is a 1984 New York law that provides legal protection for artists' moral rights.
UNESCO's Convention on the Protection and the Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions: Making it Work.
History In January 1879, the firm was founded in New York City as Browne & Witter through the partnership of Causten Browne and William C.
Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences, October 2005), especially the dissent of Judge Barrett, which contains a lengthy presentation of statutory subject matter following page 19.
In the month before the trial, Nesson petitioned the Court to be allowed to present a fair use defense to the jury.
Muguet was active in the World Network for Linguistic Diversity and point of contact for the Dynamic Coalition for Linguistic Diversity of the Internet Governance Forum and a member of ICVolunteers.
The EHDS regulation also instructs member states in ensuring electronic health data access services to support these rights (Article 4[1]), and to allow citizens the option to delegate their own rights to other natural persons (Article 4[2a]).
Useful art, or useful arts or technics, is concerned with the skills and methods of practical subjects such as manufacture and craftsmanship.
Yet scholars like Lawrence Lessig have argued that copyright terms have been extended beyond the scope imagined by the Framers.
In late 2007, Think Secret announced "Apple and Think Secret have settled their lawsuit, reaching an agreement that results in a positive solution for both sides.
The authors argue that the establishment of the CAFC has led to judicial "tunnel vision"; because the judges of the CAFC are only asked to rule on matters of intellectual property, they come to value the current patent system too highly and tend to side disproportionately with patent-holders.
The basic right when a work is protected by copyright is that the holder may determine and decide how and under what conditions the protected work may be used by others.
Additionally, Saper has been featured in digital publications including The New York Times, the Chicago Tribune, the Chicago Sun-Times, Wired, and Advertising Age.
Founded in a joint effort between Chalmers University of Technology and School of Business, Economics, and Law at the University of Gothenburg, both in Gothenburg, Sweden, CIP is an actor in the area of intellectual property and entrepreneurship.
Fenwick represented OSIsoft, in real-time industrial data software and services, in its $5B acquisition by AVEVA, in industrial software.
First, in order to justify property rights using the labor theory, you have to show that the 'non-waste' requirement is fulfilled, which means that the author should not take up more of the common resources available than they can fruitfully use — i.e.
1893 — BIRPI established In 1893, the International Bureau established by the Paris Convention and the International Bureau established by Berne Convention, both to carry out administrative tasks, merged to form the BIRPI.
Other public activities include membership in the public council of the Israeli Democracy Institute, a state commission for reforming performers' rights in Israel, and membership in a Ministry of Education supervisory committee for the civics curriculum.
On June 28, 1864, Montgomery, no longer a slave, filed a patent application for his device, but the patent office again rejected his application, perpetuating the denial of recognition and economic benefit.
Copyzero is a mechanism of protection of works by means of a qualified digital signature and a time mark.
Gambling devices In November 2012 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, Fourth Age Limited (later Tolkien Estate, Ltd) and other plaintiffs sued several Warner Bros.
In 2021, I-MAK called on the U.S administration and federal agencies to take action to promote competition and advance equity across government and update the patent system in the public's interest.
In 2016, Kenyon dissolved and 55 of its attorneys were hired by Andrews Kurth, which then renamed itself to Andrews Kurth Kenyon LLP to reflect the firm's expanded expertise in intellectual property and technology.
This song and "Hold My Liquor" were classified by Phil Witmer of Noisey as "rock anthems from the 25th century" not rap.
Patents may fail this test if they claim more than they teach: for example, a patent that claims all light bulbs but explains only how to make a particular type of light bulb.
ITechLaw assumed its current name in 2006 to reflect its international membership and the convergence of computing technologies with other technology.
The foundation also accepts donations in Europe to support WikiLeaks and previously Julian Assange's defense.
But Eric Raymond and other founders of the open-source movement have sometimes publicly argued against speculation about applications outside software, saying that strong arguments for software openness should not be weakened by overreaching into areas where the story may be less compelling.
Black & Decker started producing the workbench in 1973 as the Black & Decker Workmate, paying Hickman a royalty; it had sold about 30 million worldwide by the time of Hickman's death in 2011.
Overview and offerings McAndrews, Held & Malloy was founded in Chicago in 1988 by attorneys George P.
A further modification of the decaf theme, Maxwell House Lite, a reduced-caffeine blend, was introduced nationally in 1992 by Kraft General Foods and in its instant form the following year.
Integrated Circuit Topographies (ICT) are electronic integrated circuits or IC products that are configured and interconnected.
Due to the relative lack of authorized music distribution services in Mexico, filesharing continues to dominate music access.
A study in 2008 found that American public companies’ total profits from patents (excluding pharmaceuticals) in 1999 were about $4 billion, but that the associated litigation costs were $14 billion.
The gold and silver in Fairphone 4 has the Fairtrade label, and metals used are said to come from conflict-free mines.
Hence, for example, the EU's Quality Wines Produced in Specified Regions (QWPSR) covers all Spanish wines graded above the basic vino de mesa ('table wine').
SMBM also operates its global e-commerce platform SM Town &Store and retail shop SM Town &Store@DDP.
The Declaration was written as a result of the 1993 Rockefeller Foundation Conference "Cultural Agency/Cultural Authority: Politics and Poetics of Intellectual Property in the Post-Colonial Era".
Denumire de origine controlată (DOC) is a Romanian language appellation regime in Europe to designate food with a particular origin.
All animal groups are treated consistently by following the ICZN rules (fish names follow the same rules as insect names).
Taxonomy Publication of binomial Tabernanthe iboga was described by Henri Ernest Baillon and published in Bulletin Mensuel de la Société Linnéenne de Paris 1: 783 in the year 1889.
After more than 20 years with Ericsson, he left the company to address concerns about unpredictability and uncertainty in licensing fees through the founding of Avanci.
Typically, VDQS was a stepping stone to full AOC status, and unlike VdP covered local rather than regional areas.
Etymology The name of the group is based on squaring the circle (French: quadrature du cercle), an unsolvable mathematical problem.
In Poland, ennoblement of individuals was originally not entirely exclusive to the monarch, but could also be conferred to an individual upon being adopted under the heraldic coat of arms of Poland's influential knightly families and magnates and acknowledged by the King or Polish Crown.
The so-called Pomel report, which was presented to the French minister of agriculture on March 23, 2006, among other things proposed a simplification of the French wine classification system.
The EHDS regulation also allows data holders the right to be compensated for making health data available for secondary uses.
Baen Books and O'Reilly Media, dropped DRM prior to 2012, when Tor Books, a major publisher of science fiction and fantasy books, first sold DRM-free e-books.
The software is available in Windows 9x, Windows 2000 and Windows XP; communication is also possible with Windows NT 4.0 although not under the DCC name.
Location and accessibility Nehru Place is accessible by all forms of public transport, as it lies next to the Outer Ring Road, an arc that encompasses major parts of South Delhi.
The Supreme Court decided in the 2018 Oil States case that this function of the PTAB was constitutional.
Initially the institution was attached to the Ministry of Industry, Tourism, Integration and International Trade Negotiations (MITINCI), but in 2005 it became an autonomous entity and was assigned to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers.
It is part of the Geographical indications and traditional specialties in the European Union system, and is used for various agricultural products, including wine and other products.
Google has accused Apple (alongside Oracle, Microsoft, and others) of trying to take down Android through patent litigation, rather than innovating and competing with better products and services.
The early days of The Pirate Bay, along with the trial, are the basis for the 2024 series The Pirate Bay, with the role of Peter Sunde played by actor Simon Gregor Carlsson.
Maxwell House coffee has been owned and produced by several companies, starting with Cheek's company, Nashville Coffee and Manufacturing Company, then followed by General Foods and Kraft Foods Inc.
History Nobles were either born into a noble family, adopted by a noble family, or achieved noble rank through ennoblement (nobilitacja) by Poland's king.
Several other PC clone companies, including Corona Data Systems, Eagle Computer, and Handwell Corporation, were litigated by IBM for copyright infringement, and were forced to re-implement their BIOS in a way which did not infringe IBM's copyrights.
Wikileaks later changed providers again and Bahnhof auctioned off the servers that previously housed Wikileaks.
As tensions mounted, the Mexican partner UNAM withdrew its support for the project, and later the NIH, causing the project to be closed down in 2001 – without having been able to produce any results.
In 1883, the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property came about to address this issue, and became the first step in intellectual property protection.
The Soviets used captured German engineers to reproduce technical documents and plans and worked from captured hardware to make their clone of the rocket, the R-1.
At the time of writing, thirty-seven developed WTO members have elected either not to rely on export compulsory licenses or to only rely on them in circumstances of extreme urgency.
See also Chilling effect (law) Orphan works Copyleft Free content Good Copy Bad Copy References External links Free Culture by Lawrence Lessig The Tyranny of Copyright?
The following day, Sunde published the full description of the device and project at Konsthack as the first art project of the site's portfolio.
Modern alternatives Advances in cryptographic hash functions and blockchain technology have enabled more reliable methods for establishing temporal proof of creation that address the fundamental weaknesses of poor man's copyright.
As with the High Court, appeals from IPEC decisions (if leave to appeal is granted) are heard by the Court of Appeal.
Gerson has denied any connection between the Church and filesharing site The Pirate Bay, but both groups are associated with the Swedish art and hacking collective Piratbyrån.
The leaf nodes send query to an ultrapeer, the ultrapeer forwards the query and waits for the replies.
Clients may be tracked by IP address, DNS name, software version they use, files they share, queries they initiate, and queries they answer to.
Sea Fish Licence Tribunal The Sea Fish Licence Tribunal would have heard appeals from individual fishermen against their "days at sea" allocations in their licence, under the Sea Fish (Conservation) Act 1967.
Lazio Cannellino di Frascati, a sweet dessert wine, produced in the province of Roma Cesanese del Piglio or "Piglio", grown in the Prenestina hills southeast of Rome.
Although the EEA charges were later dropped, the matter resulted in Boeing being denied $1 billion in contracts from the United States Air Force, as well as it paying a $615 million settlement to the US Government.
Idiazábal – Basque cheese; the DO labels includes the cheese output of Alava, Biscay, Gipuzkoa, and Navarre.
Registration of unitary effect is to be organised by the European Patent Office and requires less translations and a single renewal fee for the whole territory.
During the summer of 2011, the content from the site was displayed as a part of the exhibition StockTV at Kulturhuset in Stockholm.
Patents and copyrights mitigate this by granting temporary monopolies, enabling price markups that fund future innovation.
81 and 82 of the EC Treaty, (abuse of dominant position, etc.) as well as licensing directives, cartels, etc.
2010 revitalisation In order to revitalise the court and provide some procedural distinction from the High Court, a new set of procedural rules were introduced in Autumn 2010, at the same time that (as he then was) His Honour Colin Birss was appointed as the judge of the PCC.
a protein-encoding gene from a chromosome), but things (even alive) "made by man" may be (Diamond v.
The logo in question featured the outline of an apple and a leaf, although the design incorporated a mountain, had three bumps on top of the apple instead of the two used by Apple, and had no bite out of the apple, unlike Apple's logo.
As the opener for his set at the 2014 Wireless Festival, West ended the performance lying on his back.
There has been historic concern about inconsistencies in penalties administered for university student plagiarism, and a plagiarism tariff was devised in 2008 for UK higher education institutions in an attempt to encourage some standardization of approaches.
TamilRockers is a torrent website based in India which facilitates unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material, including television shows, movies, music and videos.
However, Gabriele served his sentence in the Vatican itself, as opposed to the usual arrangement of sending prisoners to serve time in an Italian prison, due to concerns that he might reveal more secrets.
The answer from EEC was to intervene in the market to make some guarantee as to sales, while still keeping the freedom to plant new vineyards, which aggravated rather than solved the problem of overproduction.
Although these servers were located near Bahnhof's server park (in a network lab area) the company claimed they were not their property since they had been privately purchased by staff.
The Act provides exclusive rights for the creator of the integrated circuit topography and remedies to deter infringement.
Muguet is also known for designing the pattern of global patronage which aims to answer the legal argument raised against the global license under the Berne Convention on copyright.
It has been marketed in the United States and Canada initially from 1992 to 1994, and has had sporadic limited releases since 2016.
This practice "enables companies to identify the patents in a particular technology space, verify the characteristics of these patents, and ...
According to Beckedahl, the small number of full members is necessary to build an infrastructure before opening up to more people.
Patent and Trademark Office rather than by the Secretary of Commerce (a "Head of Department" under the Appointments clause of the Constitution).
While CIPO will grant patents for isolated gDNA and cDNA, the Supreme Court of Canada has not yet ruled on gene patentability.
Because products containing these circuits are often exported outside Canada, Canada has reciprocal agreements with other countries that also protect the design for ten years.
Li referred to his search mechanism as "link analysis," which involved ranking the popularity of a web site based on how many other sites had linked to it.
From the technical viewpoint, a nanopublication is a Resource Description Framework (RDF) graph built around an assertion represented as a triple (subject-predicate-object) and usually extracted, manually or automatically, from a scientific publication.
Liang observes that the concept of "the author" is assumed to make universal sense across cultures and across time.
The licensing conditions include permission to use and view the source code, design documents, or content of the product.
The introduction of the photocopier, cassette tape, and videotape made it easier for consumers to copy materials like books and music, but each time a copy was made, it lost some fidelity.
In Sweden, the term "television licence" (Swedish: TV-licens) was replaced by the term "television fee" (Swedish: TV-avgift) in 1967, although Swedish people sometimes still refer to it by the former term.
In recent years, as Republicans have backed more trade restrictions and anti-immigration policies and more Democrats have embraced immigration, free trade, and other pro-business policies, the composition of the Chamber's political support has shifted.
History 1883 — Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property In 1873, a pressing issue became evident for creators, in that they feared that others would steal their ideas since there was no way to regulate such things.
Eli Mordechai Salzberger (Hebrew: עלי זלצברגר; born 12 March 1960), is a Law Professor at the University of Haifa Faculty of Law and former Dean of the faculty.
The Columbia Journal of Law & the Arts (JLA) is a student-edited law review at Columbia Law School and the world's leading journal in copyright and art law.
Thus, software developers do not design the executable software's physical structure because they merely provide the functional terms.
When the law passed in December 2009 it was determined that the law be gradually applied and that at the first phase, the inclusion of one's biometric data in the central database would be voluntary.
Windows 10 During the Windows 10 release, the FSF issued a statement urging users to reject it due to its proprietary nature.
This mechanism lies in converting the work into digital format and appending the digital signature (which characterizes the author of the work) and a time mark (which indicates the existence of the work since given time) to the file.
To instruct the jury that it may ascribe an award in a range of up to $4,500,000 against a noncommercial copyright infringer is punitive, excessive, not authorized by statute, and a denial of due process." On November 17, 2011, the Court denied the request to rehear the case.
A panel can contain a channel, a dialog with another user, a list, or information about a DCC file transfer.
The example specific to this article can be implemented in tidyr (in the Tidyverse metapackage) directly via the pivot_wider function.
History Sintered silicon carbide was patented by the Pittsburgh-based Carborundum Corporation in 1979 under U.S.
Additionally, Video Pipeline amended the complaint to seek declaratory relief to use a two-minute video clip review it created out of sixty-two movies.
History and mandate The IGC was established in 2000 and it first met in 2001 during the General Assembly of WIPO, which reviews, updates, and extends the mandate of the IGC every two years at the Assembly's meetings.
cities through 1959, and had young people waiting in long lines for their chance to sit at the control panels.
(1990), NEC sought declaratory judgment against Intel's charges that NEC's engineers simply copied the microcode of the 8086 processor in their NEC V20 clone.
In particular, the existing regulations concerning French wine, with its detailed appellation laws, formed a basis, while also making room for the very different German wine classification system.
History Sharism was coined by Isaac Mao in the essay "Sharism: A Mind Revolution" which was originally published in the book Freesouls.
Joseph, Missouri, to give the public the first taste of the new drink, as the city was chosen for Teem's primary distribution market before being introduced elsewhere.
In their new interpretation any personal computer, smartphone or tablet connected to the Internet is also considered a TV set and requires payment of the TV fee.
To help advertise the marshmallows, a simulated space ship made by Aerojet-General Corporation was offered as a prize for Kraft's ongoing "Name the Training Space Ship" promotion.
The trial court initially ruled in favor of the Lugosi heirs, but Universal Studios won the case in an appeal.
Soft drink sales boomed in the 1980s with popularization of diet drinks, but in 1991 slowed to a 1.8% growth rate.
It is used in industry and explored by the public sector to take informed decisions related to prioritization and investments in R&D, IP portfolio management, and policymaking among others.
Stocktown started out in the late 1990s as a collective documenting all aspects of street culture via an online magazine, documentaries, exhibitions, music- and film festivals.
The organization is dedicated to "giving technologists tools and resources to ensure that their work is being used for social good and to minimize harm".
Chamber of Commerce believes that the climate is changing, and that man is contributing to these changes.
A patent portfolio is a collection of patents owned by a single entity, such as an individual or corporation.
It was founded in 1995 by Tom Cross, Robert Costner, Chris Farris, and Robbie Honerkamp, primarily in response to the Communications Decency Act.
The website had three alternative domains (.me, .ch and .in) and hoped to move the .eu domain to a new registrar.
The process was "automated to the maximum extent practicable", with the intent of resolving the dispute within thirty days of filing.
It subjected Hill to a demeaning cross-examination and, in its address to the jury, depicted Hill as a manipulative actor.
Sufficiency of disclosure or enablement is a patent law requirement that a patent application disclose a claimed invention in sufficient detail so that the person skilled in the art could carry out that claimed invention.
On July 2, 2022, SonyLIV released a series named Tamil Rockerz, which is about online piracy and cybercrime, it stars Arun Vijay and Vani Bhojan, directed by Arivazhagan.
See also Papilio dardanus (the swallowtail butterfly that is the subject of chapter thirteen) == References ==
The book explains the concept of wild law, that is, human laws that are consistent with earth jurisprudence.
The fourth edition cover is an image of a mural on a Wellington street created by Christopher Meech and a group of urban artists to generate thought about the topic of environmental degradation.
The only group researching these health risks, the Heavy Metal Task Force, was industry-funded despite being established by the state of California.
The Earth After Us is a 2008 non-fiction book by Jan Zalasiewicz about the geological legacy that humans might one day leave behind them.
The book has received favorable reviews, including a description of its "simple straightforward explanations" for a "full course in single-source dispersive modeling".
Our Angry Earth: A Ticking Ecological Bomb (1991) is a non-fiction book and polemic against the effects of humankind on the environment by the science fiction writers Isaac Asimov and Frederik Pohl.
A review in Jacobin by writer and climate activist Sam Knights described the book as "an essential vision of the future".
Explanation of the book's title The title of An Inconvenient Book is a parody of the title of Al Gore's 2006 documentary An Inconvenient Truth.
He visited Stonehenge and found some outer stones partly buried, the turf sloping up to meet them (see figure 7).
Responses Initial version of text Environmentalists including May Boeve criticized the narrative for promoting climate doom and focusing on a small group that they argue is not representative of the broader climate movement.
Munro also points out that some eminent climate scientists, like Princeton University's Michael Oppenheimer, remain optimistic that humanity will act before it is too late.
Such episodes reveal further how colonial ideas and climatic realities seemed to shape each other in this period.
See also An Inconvenient Truth Climate refugee Effects of climate change Extreme weather Global warming controversy Storms of My Grandchildren The Weather Makers References External links Excerpt from the book
""Das Klimabuch" von Greta Thunberg: Weise und infantil zugleich" [The "climate book" by Greta Thunberg: Wise and infantile at the same time].
Romm is an expert on clean energy, advanced vehicles, energy security, and greenhouse gas mitigation.
[I]t's wonderful that Gates has decided to work hard on climate questions, but to be truly helpful he ...
The book details how heat waves caused by global warming have had disastrous effects on society including the 2003 European heat wave that killed 72,000 people, including 15,000 people in Paris alone.
He describes how the desert affects society and more specifically the individual on a multifaceted, sensory level.
Its targets were multilateralism and interdependence of nations in the search for a sustainable development path.
She believes that electric cars are essential to hitting greenhouse gas targets and predicts that in the decades to come we will see widespread conversion to pure electric vehicles.
Demographics, wages, and inflation Malthus wrote of the relationship between population, real wages, and inflation.
How to Live a Low-Carbon Life: The Individual's Guide to Stopping Climate Change is a 2007 book by Chris Goodall, published by Earthscan/Routledge.
An Inconvenient Book: Real Solutions to the World's Biggest Problems is a 2007 political narrative written and edited by conservative commentator Glenn Beck.
Scorcher: The Dirty Politics of Climate Change is a 2007 book by Clive Hamilton which contends that Australia rather than the United States is the major stumbling block to a more effective Kyoto Protocol.
Jonathan Slaght, reviewing the book for The New York Times, wrote that "(t)his book is a testament to Simard's skill as a science communicator...
The book examines six environmental and social principles that have been used at the international and national level.
Joe Eaton in the Whole Earth Review categorized Parasite Rex as "one of those books that change the way you see the world" due to how it shows that ecosystems are largely made up of the parasites that the individual organisms carry.
The book is divided into six chapters, which in turn are subdivided into short essays on different topics.
This analysis updates and expands Deploying Renewables: Principles for Effective Policies, published by the IEA in 2008, in light of events and trends in the last five years.
See also Politics of global warming United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and accompanying Kyoto Protocol (CO2 Regulations) Post–Kyoto Protocol negotiations on greenhouse gas emissions Green Climate Fund == References ==
This publication was in recognition of Gro Harlem Brundtland, former Norwegian Prime Minister and Chair of the World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED).
But in designating these dangers as the enemy, we fall into the trap, which we have already warned readers about, namely mistaking symptoms for causes.
Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds publishes a Whole Seed Catalog, with a title and cover image inspired by the Whole Earth Catalog.
Savage explores the colonial history of the area, including the slaughter of the Plains bison, which was an integral part of Indigenous prairie life.
Goodall explains how consumers can cut carbon usage by 75 percent without making drastic lifestyle changes.
Part II proposes several dozen first steps as alternatives to alternative energy, which the author sees as holding greater potential for addressing environmental challenges.
In a review of the book, British economist Nicholas Stern suggests that there is no doubting McKibben’s sincerity and his ability to communicate the significant risks which humanity faces.
Aimed at those aged between seven and eleven, it discusses climate change and the various threats that face the environment.
During this time, the community was transformed "from a small group of isolated farmers to a defiant band of environmentalists".
Fundamentals of Stack Gas Dispersion is a book devoted to the fundamentals of air pollution dispersion modeling of continuous, buoyant pollution plumes from stationary point sources.
Graves List of books about nuclear issues Nuclear fallout References External links NY Times review of Fallout Exposure of the American Population to Radioactive Fallout from Nuclear Weapons Tests
Cenex paid DeYoung to apply the "fertilizer" to his land then attempted to dilute it with massive amounts of water.
The authors saw the world coming into a global-scale societal revolution amid social, economic, technological, and cultural upheavals that started to push humanity into an unknown.
The author goes as far as to paint the pumpkin as a cultural icon that helped forge a uniquely American identity.
Deffeyes was a geologist who warned of the coming oil crisis in a previous book called Hubbert's Peak.
Gaiman, N., Don't Panic – Douglas Adams & the Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy, ISBN 1-84023-742-2 Titan Books, London, 1993 "BBC – h2g2 – Last Chance To See – the Radio Series and Book".
He outlines the manner in which Islamic extremism has been financed by oil revenues, the technological feasibility of ethanol-fueled vehicles as well as the economic and agricultural imperatives for ethanol production, and the environmental implications of his plan.
That award is described, "Books that comment on environmental themes, particularly as applied to the relationships between man, society, and the environment.
Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things is a 2002 non-fiction book by German chemist Michael Braungart and US architect William McDonough.
References External links Burning Question website "Climate change and carbon footprinting — an interview with Mike Berners-Lee".
It offers an explanation of why simple structures billions of years ago gave way to more complex structures, such as stars, planets, life, and human beings in complex civilizations.
Green Illusions: The Dirty Secrets of Clean Energy and the Future of Environmentalism (ISBN 978-0-8032-3775-9), by Ozzie Zehner, was published in 2012 by the University of Nebraska Press.
of Bay Zinc, Wilson discovered Cozinco, whose founder Kipp Smallwood was concerned about the metals in zinc fertilizers.
Booker concludes, "it begins to look very possible that the nightmare vision of our planet being doomed" may be imaginary, and that, if so, "it will turn out to be one of the most expensive, destructive, and foolish mistakes the human race has ever made".
Underestimation of rising sea levels The recent rate of sea level rise (3.4 mm/yr over the past 15 years) is around 80% faster than previously predicted.
actually began to be carried out, particularly billboarding, when small groups in the early 1970s such as the one calling themselves the "Eco-Raiders" in Tucson, Arizona, began cutting down billboards.
we're going to be fundamentally changing society, and the question is, maybe people don't have jobs." In a review in the Socialist Standard, the book is described as "[a]t best, this book is a useful primer to introduce people to the concept of incoming and widespread technological unemployment.
Climate Change Denial: Heads in the Sand was first published in 2011 by Earthscan, a division of Routledge.
Marsh intended his text to show that "whereas [others] think the earth made man, man in fact made the earth." He warned that humans could destroy both themselves and the Earth if they failed to restore and sustain global resources and to raise awareness about their actions.
Reception The Financial Times noted that the book is Johann Rupert's favorite, who stated "How is society going to cope with structural unemployment?
Cry of the Kalahari was a national and international bestseller, translated into seven languages and is the 1985 John Burroughs Medal winner.
Our scientific understanding of the planet Earth has taught us that not only is the continued use of fossil fuels unsustainable, it is self-destructive as well.
Using the most basic typesetting and page-layout tools, Brand and his colleagues created the first issue of The Whole Earth Catalog in 1968.
Many of the poems in Turtle Island are political in nature, like much of Snyder's poetry of the late 1960s, albeit with a different focus than that of his earlier writings.
Overlapping environmental, social, and economic forces such as the 1973 energy crisis and popularisation of the concept of globalisation helped bring Schumacher's Small Is Beautiful critiques of mainstream economics to a wider audience during the 1970s.
She donated her copyright and all royalties generated by the book to her foundation and will not personally profit from sales or other commercial uses.
Last Child in the Woods: Saving Our Children From Nature-Deficit Disorder is a 2005 book by author Richard Louv that documents decreased exposure of children to nature in American society and how this "nature-deficit disorder" harms children and society.
Henpecked: the truth behind the label Silent Spring: the birth of farming's chemical age Wildlife: the great disappearing act Fish: farming takes to the water Animal Care: what happened to the vet?
It is fun as well as informative, and useful for any scenario or campaign designer, from the science-fiction role-player designing a planet, to the fantasy gamer worrying about dragons." == References ==
Yet he was sharply critical of the book's treatment of facts, describing it as full of cherry picking and "outright distortions of the source material".
Lastly, part three reframes the themes into current environmental problems as a result of European colonialism and how those have affected societies including the Inca and countries including Rwanda, Hispaniola, Australia, and New Guinea.
Charles had previously collaborated with Juniper and Shuckburgh on a book for adults, also titled Climate Change, and published by Ladybird in 2017.
Jeffrey Harvey, who had debated Lomborg several times by 2003, admitted that the tone of attacks on Lomborg could have been counterproductive.
The last three editions, published by a Florida publisher, Pineapple Press, have updated afterwords: in 1998 by Randy Lee Loftis and Marjory Stoneman Douglas; the 50th anniversary edition in 1997 by Cyril Zaneski; and the 60th anniversary edition in 2007 by Michael Grunwald, author of The Swamp.
Reception Trevor Butterworth writing in the Wall Street Journal praised Power Hungry as a "brutal, brilliant exploration" of the quest for green energy.
How to Live a Low-Carbon Life has been reviewed in the Journal of Environmental Health Research, The Guardian, and The Times.
The first eight chapters examine California's ecological system, the ninth chapter is an overview of nature throughout the state's 58 counties, and the final chapter covers the topic of rewilding.
Douglas spent five years researching the Everglades, consulting with Garald Parker of the US Geological Survey, who was studying the Everglades hydrology systems, and eventually wrote nearly 40 papers on the ecosystems in the Everglades.
History Greta Thunberg has presented the speeches in front of the United Nations, the European Union, the World Economic Forum and during demonstrations and protests.
McBean concluded that the book, "Is not useful, nor is it worthy of recommendation." See also The Hockey Stick Illusion The Real Global Warming Disaster == References ==
Synopsis Marx identifies a major theme in literature of the nineteenth century—the dialectical tension between the pastoral ideal in America and the rapid and sweeping transformations wrought by machine technology.
The book examines the "embodied histories" of Canadians who were affected by Canadian megaprojects in the postwar period, assessing how such developments, which significantly altered local environments, affected people's senses of place and identity through their sensory experiences.
Eventually, carbon and methane emissions will be controlled and lowered a great deal and Ruddiman asserts when this happens the Earth will most likely begin an era of cooling temperatures.
All profits of the book (printed on 100% recycled paper) go to the Alliance for Climate Protection, which Gore founded in 2006.
The Book promotes the use of sustainable energy sources and slow resource consumption as the solution to delay or forestall death by entropy including resource wars and the collapse of society.
Reviewed in Foreign Policy, BuzzFeed News, New Statesman, and Undark Magazine, the book unrolls the history of human concern for weather derangement and climate change along the latest centuries to its present scientific systematization and public prominence.
Author Chris Laszlo is a visiting professor at Case Western University’s Weatherhead School of Management, and co-founder of Sustainable Value Partners, LLC, where he has advised executives on sustainability for competitive advantage.
The residents of the Boyd County farming community resisted the offer and controversy followed for almost two decades.
Ronald Reagan succeeded Carter as president in January 1981 and did not pursue the report's recommendations.
Synopsis The book fleshes out Wallace-Wells' original New York magazine piece in more detail, dovetailing into discussions surrounding various possibilities for Earth's future across a spectrum of predicted future temperature ranges.
The book argues that pollution control and natural resource management have become critical elements of marketplace success and explains how leading-edge companies have folded environmental thinking into their core business strategies.
Robert Zubrin on YouTube, presenting an outline of the book Energy Victory website MSNBC - Is alcohol the energy answer?
He then argues that a need to overturn this "well-embedded paradigm" was met by the 1998 publication by Michael E.
New renewables (small hydro, modern biomass, wind, solar, geothermal, and biofuels) account for another 3% and are growing very rapidly.
While Foreman and most of the rest of the old guard of EF severed their ties to the group in 1990, he remains an environmental activist.
See also Environmental movement Leaderless resistance The Starfish and the Spider Unorganisation Wiser.org References External links Blessed Unrest for a Wiser Earth: John Stauber interviews Paul Hawken Blessed Unrest (film)
Janine Kitson reviewed the book for the journal Education, a publication of the New South Wales Teachers Federation.
Catastrophe: Risk and Response is a 2004 book by the American legal scholar and economist Richard Posner, in which the author advocates the use of a cost–benefit framework to address potential major disasters such as runaway global warming and planet-obliterating asteroids.
Throughout the book, Klein discusses her support for the Green New Deal and in the final essay she notes of the 2020 U.S.
It turned out to be a pair of two tigers, a mother and its grown cub, which had together killed 64 people between 1925 and 1930.
Factors which are driving the global expansion of clean tech are identified, as are the new economic opportunities which are being created.
At Point Cajetuba he finds a line of dead fire-ants, "an inch or two in height and breadth", washed up on the shore "without interruption for miles".
unfortunately the report has been largely dismissed by critics as a doomsday prophecy that has not held up to scrutiny." Also in 2008, researcher Peter A.
It is also an outdated concept that tries to dictate which people are allowed to live the fullest lifespan possible.
The book was originally titled "Between Pacific Tides: An Account of the Habits and Habitats of Some Five Hundred of the Common, Conspicuous Seashore Invertebrates of the Pacific Coast Between Sitka, Alaska, and Northern Mexico".
References External links Entropy, Algeny & The End of Work a review by Howard Doughty Entropy: A Limit to Energy Use a criticism by K.
O'Neil, Frank Crisafulli, Zach Willy, Andrew Parkey, Hugh Macrae, Tom Cade, Bob Elgas, Dalle Miller, Bob O'Brien, Greg Koonce, Dayton Hyde.
In November 2006, Worldchanging published a survey of global innovation, with a foreword by Al Gore, design by Stefan Sagmeister and an introduction by Bruce Sterling.
Special coverage is given to the positive feedback mechanisms that could dramatically accelerate climate change.
The court case "resulted in an award of $2.66 million in damages to eight persons with leukemia, one with thyroid cancer, and another with breast cancer".
oil dependence can be eliminated by proven and attractive technologies that create wealth, enhance choice, and strengthen common security.
The authors argue that America can lead the world into the post-petroleum era and create a vibrant economy.
He says that abolishing capitalism is actually only Klein's preferred path to solving climate change and not essential to solving climate change as Klein declares.
According to Mountain West News, "Montana-based wildlife biologist Jim Williams celebrates wildlife research and conservation of ghost cats from Canada's Yukon Territory to Tierra del Fuego in Argentina and Chile..." Critical reception Path of the Puma has received positive reviews.
For instance, In 1971 we consumed twice as much energy from natural gas as from coal, but coal made a comeback under Carter and overtook natural gas in 1986".
Energy and American Society: Thirteen Myths is a 2007 book about energy security and climate change, edited by Benjamin K.
A second, unauthorized, edition was issued in 1902 by Paul Graebner, who put his own name after Warming's on the book's frontispiece, despite no changes to the contents.
Military police attempt to kill Monbiot as he exposes a vast military project opening up the area to logging and deforestation.
Per the introduction, the book focuses on five countries' use of GM technology, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, and South Africa.
The report sought to recapture the spirit of the Stockholm Conference of 1972, which had introduced environmental concerns to the formal political development sphere.
Small Is Profitable: The Hidden Economic Benefits of Making Electrical Resources the Right Size is a 2002 book by energy analyst Amory Lovins and others.
Critical reception The book is used Leech Lake Tribal College's class Anishinaabe Understanding of Ecology.
Climate Change is a children's book co-authored by Charles III, the King of the United Kingdom, Tony Juniper, the Chair of Natural England, and climate scientist Emily Shuckburgh.
Stern says McKibben is too pessimistic when it comes to the recent advances in avoiding even bigger changes to the climate by reducing emissions of greenhouse gases.
After launching the Giving Pledge, the Gates invited the Salwens to Seattle for a photo shoot and conversation about The Power of Half.
He advocates increased innovation and investment in nuclear energy, and warns against overly focusing on wind and solar generation, due to their intermittent nature.
Eurasian grains were richer in protein, easier to sow, and easier to store than American maize or tropical bananas.
The book traces the development of fisheries science in Canada in the first decades of the twentieth century.
Additionally, existing cars (including hybrids) can be retrofitted with flex-fuel capability for "between $100 and $500".
Section 3 The third section examines the necessity and possibility of much more dramatic increases in fuel economy while accelerating the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
The editor-in-chief of Houghton Mifflin, Paul Brooks, had a similar idea following the literary fame achieved by The Sea Around Us, and The Edge of the Sea was released on October 26, 1955.
Both ideologies were ultimately fixated on unsustainable exploitation of local life, which had significant material consequences.
Film A documentary based on the book, titled This Changes Everything, was directed by Avi Lewis and produced by Alfonso Cuaron and Joslyn Barnes.
This expanded edition includes 16 speeches and 66 photos.) External links Quotations related to Greta Thunberg at Wikiquote
Content In June 2020, Shellenberger published Apocalypse Never: Why Environmental Alarmism Hurts Us All, in which the author argues that climate change is not the existential threat it is portrayed to be in popular media and activism.
Reviews and interviews Triumph of Doubt has been reviewed in Science Magazine, Nature, Undark Magazine, by the Union of Concerned Scientists, and in the San Francisco Review of Books (blog).
Chapter 7 explores some of the practical consequences of Ginzburg and Colyvan's model, including for the management of fisheries and conservation of endangered species.
Editions Wildlife Wars: My Fight to Save Africa's Natural Treasures ISBN 0-330-37240-8 == References ==
It includes information on landforms, climate, geology, soils, flora, the Swan River, the coast, offshore islands, wetlands, and urban areas.
According to Stern, his "overall thesis that we are already seeing widespread effects of climate change is sound and supported by much robust scientific evidence".
Nuclear Nebraska: The Remarkable Story of the Little County That Couldn't Be Bought is a 2007 book by Susan Cragin which follows the controversy about a proposed low level nuclear waste dump, which was planned for Boyd County, Nebraska.
However, he suggests that The Clean Tech Revolution is not an explanation of the technologies and how they work, nor is it an analysis of energy or environmental policy.
While for flora and fauna, the theory's predictions have been realized with the species richness of plants on mountains and with the species richness of aquatic snails in bodies of water.
Though the book describes recommended energy policies, including market internalization of carbon costs, government purchasing of oil and gas companies, and a shift to renewable energy, the authors emphasize industrial policy over energy policy.
Yet nowhere did Schimper acknowledge his profound debt to Warming, neither in the list of picture credits, nor in the acknowledgements section of the Vorwort, nor in his list of major sources, and not even in a footnote!
How entrepreneurs have found niche markets for the conservation of species like the peregrine falcon is explained in the book.
The book deals with the phenomenon of climate change and public reactions to it, with Guenther suggesting ways to combat climate change denial through climate communication.
Rather than give credence to claims of innate European superiority and the like, Crosby explains the relative ease with which Europeans conquered the Neo-Europes as being a product of biological and ecological processes.
Sites were grouped into six major habitat types: Coastal sites - 135 sites Woodlands - 234 sites Lowland grasslands, heaths and scrub - 159 sites Open waters - 99 sites Peatlands - 116 sites Upland grasslands and heaths - 101 sites See also List of NCR sites == References ==
Some other key concepts to illustrate the meaning of sustainability include: It may be a fuzzy concept, but in a positive sense: the goals are more important than the approaches or means applied.
While Japan may claim a history of whaling, the book thus argues, it was not continuous, and it was both commercial and ecologically unsustainable from its early history.
The book was met with fierce opposition by chemical companies, but it swayed public opinion and led to a reversal in US pesticide policy, a nationwide ban on DDT for agricultural uses, and an environmental movement that led to the creation of the US Environmental Protection Agency.
Additionally the hydrogen path is discussed including conversion options and efficiencies from different energy forms (coal to electricity) into this gaseous energy carrier.
Photos, headlines, and references to related books, documentaries, articles, and websites appear throughout.
A paperback edition was published by Bantam in 1981, in a paperback revised edition, by Bantam Books, in 1989 (ISBN 0-553-34717-9).
The books in this list include fields and styles such as anthropology, conservation science, ecology, environmental history, lifestyle, and memoirs.
It talks about the ineffectiveness of wind turbines, and how they produce the same amount of energy per year as one coal-fired power station (3.9 gigawatts).
Reception The book received positive reviews from critics, who singled out its exploration of issues like exploitation of labour and the environment, algorithmic bias, and false claims about AI's ability to recognize human emotion.
They also involve indices and accounting systems, such as corporate sustainability reporting and triple Bottom Line accounting.
The Weather of the Future: Heat Waves, Extreme Storms, and Other Scenes From a Climate-Changed Planet (ISBN 978-0-06-172688-0) is a 2010 book by climatologist Heidi Cullen.
The title refers to the hypothesis of 1,500-year climate cycles in the Holocene first postulated by Gerard C.
Chapter 7 criticises the common perception of AlphaGo as an otherworldly intelligence instead of a natural product of massive brute-force calculation at environmental cost, and Chapter 8 discusses tech billionaires' fantasies of developing private spaceflight to escape resource depletion on Earth.
Reception The book was reviewed in the journal Endangered Species, the ALA magazine Booklist, Publishers Weekly, Books in Canada, African Business, the Royal Geographical Society's Geographical magazine.
Opposition In response to Ezra Klein's mention of How to Blow Up a Pipeline in The New York Times, a Fox News article by Lindsay Kornick claimed that Klein "appeared to condone eco-terrorism", writing that "Klein appeared to understand and even sympathize with the author".
Therefore the hunger in these regions can be alleviated only through the charity of other nations" (p.
Thunberg donated her share of the prize money to a lawsuit seeking to halt Norwegian oil exploration in the Arctic.
Publishers Weekly said, "Williams writes movingly of the challenges these animals face, many due to human encroachment on their habitats.
In this period, abilities for dispersal are commonly reduced, and colonizers will either differentiate or assimilate with competing species.
Beattie and Ehrlich describe the role of natural substances in medicine, pest control, and manufacturing.
Gore, Al, Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit, 2000-04-22, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, MA, hardcover, 416 pages, ISBN 0-618-05664-5.
The complaint was not upheld, because the Press Council ruled that it was responsible for vetting robust debate in the letter pages.
See also Bengal tigers in literature Tiger attack Tiger attacks in the Sundarbans References External links Man-Eaters of Kumaon at Faded Page (Canada) Man-Eaters of Kumaon at Internet Archive (scanned books) Man-Eaters of Kumaon at IMDb
Abbey also describes his difficulty finding the language, faith, and philosophy to adequately capture his understanding of nature and its effect on the soul.
The Control of Nature is a 1989 nonfiction book by John McPhee that chronicles three attempts to control natural processes that had varying success.
The report noted that the Commission had "focused its attention in the areas of population, food security, the loss of species and genetic resources, energy, industry, and human settlements - realizing that all of these are connected and cannot be treated in isolation one from another".
It looks at over three hundred years of Indigenous history from King Philip's War to the present day, mostly in the North American Northeast, as well as in Bermuda.
Lawrence labeled the book as a "splendid overview of current knowledge about parasites" and praised the extensive Notes, Literature Cited, and Index sections.
This should change how distributed resources are marketed and used, and make policy and business opportunities explicit.
The Consumer's Guide to Effective Environmental Choices : Practical Advice from the Union of Concerned Scientists.
It warned that world population growth, pollution and resource depletion would have dramatic consequences by the year 2000 if no changes in public policy were made.
Halliday has published numerous scientific papers often related to the explanatory narrative within "Otherlands." The book itself includes 45 pages of scientific references (between 20 and 30 references per chapter).
The Uninhabitable Earth: Life After Warming is a 2019 non-fiction book by David Wallace-Wells about the consequences of global warming.
Carbon accounting Berners-Lee has pioneered carbon accounting of upstream carbon emissions from supply chains, known as scope 3 emissions, to assess the full greenhouse gas emissions of products.
Friedman writes that the needed green revolution of the title would be more ambitious than any project so far undertaken: It will be the biggest innovation project in American history; and it will change everything from transportation to the utilities industry.
See also The Age of Stupid Environmental migrant Tipping point (climatology) Environmental issues with coral reefs References External links What will climate change do to our planet?, The Sunday Times, March 11, 2007.
Content Floating Coast is organized into five sections - Sea, Shore, Land, Underground, and Ocean - each overlapping in time and offering a non-linear journey exploring interactions between people, wildlife, and natural resources.
In the second and third chapters, McKibben lays out his analysis of how we have arrived at the current situation, and conveys genuine sorrow as he explains how the drive for economic growth based on hydrocarbons since the 1970s has led the planet to the point of breakdown.
According to the book the consumer price of cheap meat does not include the overall costs of industrial meat production.
Reception Writing for The New York Review of Books, Eric Klinenberg notes that "the tone of the book is urgent and pragmatic.
On the webpage of the David Suzuki Foundation—a non-profit organization environmental organization headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, that he co-founded in 1991, Suzuki said that the response to the CBC radio show was the catalyst for the establishment of the Foundation.
Mooney details William Gray's changing role from groundbreaking theorist to climate change denying anti-theorist set against the background of the increasing public spotlight and urgency to develop a working understanding of storms and global warming in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
They have been published in a number of books together with text describing environmental concerns related to the photographs.
Synopsis The Outlaw Ocean is structured as a series of essays about lawlessness at sea with each chapter covering a different aspect and case studies.
Prosperity without Growth analyses the complex relationships between economic growth, environmental crises, and social recession.
His network of correspondents and fans responded to his interest and "earthworm anecdotes began surfacing in his mountain of mail".
The book focuses on the role of place and details the continued presence of Indigenous peoples and memory in Bastoniak (Boston), Narragansett (roughly overlapping with Rhode Island), along the middle of the Kwinitekw (Connecticut River) Valley, and Bermuda.
However, the later global model lacked superintending managers to enforce interrelated world-level changes, resulting in undesirable cycles that led to exponential growth and collapse in nearly all models, regardless of the parameter settings.
He advocates prompt phaseout of coal plant emissions, plus improved forestry and agricultural practices.
Calling himself "The Fox", he engaged in such activities as plugging smokestacks and entering the offices of corporate executives to dump sewage on their desks.
Stevens would have denied qualified immunity to assistant principal Wilson, writing that "this is, in essence, a case in which clearly established law meets clearly outrageous conduct".
One of the first members was Gerald Gardner, who in 1945 established the Five Acres Club, ostensibly as a nudist club, but as a front for Wiccans, as this was illegal in England until 1951.
Organizers expected 7,500 attendees, but canceled the 2010 event the day before it was scheduled to occur, citing poor ticket sales and cost overruns.
Mark Kernes of AVN recommended it as "a must-see for anyone thinking of entering the adult industry—and for many who are already in it".
This was because in most cases the theorodokos was to bear the cost of hosting the theoroi, and to have adequate accommodations for the theoroi, the theorodokoi needed sufficient personal wealth.
Mooning the Cog is a tradition in which hikers bare their buttocks to the trains of the Cog Railway on Mount Washington, the highest peak in New Hampshire.
Diefenbach showed the Terke family sketches for the work and explained the history of its origins, hoping it would be included in his exhibition in Vienna, certainly highly suitable for a Christmas exhibition and its spatial extent (68 metres).
The king is then paraded about his city to show off the garment; when the common folk ask him if he has become a naked ascetic, he realizes the deception, but the swindler has already fled.
The bay became more accessible when Hongkong United Dockyards (HUD) was built closer to the bay in 1976.
Police did not intervene as the group marched from the Multnomah County Justice Center to Pioneer Courthouse Square and back.
Crowley stated that Loxie & Zoot "kind of flowed out of that to a degree," noting that she was also reading many alternative, indie, and underground comics at the time.
Fan service (ファンサービス, fan sābisu), fanservice or service cut (サービスカット, sābisu katto) is material in a work of fiction or in a fictional series that is intentionally added to please the audience.
They appeared topless except for pieces of tape over their nipples, and had the words "Free the Nipple", "Equality", and "Feel the Bern" written on their chests.
At about halfway through he arrives at a military checkpoint and stands at the back of a queue also containing the other members of the band.
The Association pour la promotion du naturisme en liberté (APNEL) is a French organization that seeks decriminalization of nudity, with particular emphasis on the section of the French penal code relating to sexual exhibitionism.
The 2019 event was the last to be held, with the 2020 and 2021 events being cancelled as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
A theorodokos was sometimes appointed by the community in which he lived but sometimes by the community that sent out the theoroi.
There he preached his idea that humans might live best in a "natural state" eating only coconuts, and gave public lectures in Leipzig and Nuremberg, where he was ridiculed.
The International Naturist Federation (INF), also known as Fédération Naturiste Internationale (FNI) and Internationale Naturisten Föderation (INF), is the global umbrella organisation representing official national naturist societies or associations.
After Rook seizes an opportunity to kidnap Benson, he asks Stabler to inflict pain on her or watch him do it.
David Graham (Michael Redgrave) enters the theater "Revudeville" (We Never Closed) through the stage door and stands in the wings watching twelve dancing girls in bikinis and headpieces dance.
In the United Kingdom, obscene phone calls are punishable by a fine of up to £5,000 or up to six months in prison under the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994.
He gives her water and tells her to wait by the fountain, while he goes back to the castle to bring a carriage and a retinue to welcome her.
With only one day of rain and the rest of the week being sunny, this festival also ranks as one with lucky weather conditions.
In the 1990s animated series Robinson Sucroe, a parody of Robinson Crusoe, the island Sucroe lands on is heavily populated by friendly natives, all of whom are named after days of the week and times of day (e.g.
On Marvels consists of "anecdotes culled from sources as diverse as the Greek poet Hesiod and the Roman natural historian Pliny the Elder.
References External links Official site Archived 2013-06-21 at the Wayback Machine Nacktfussball at Pornopedia
It was in front of the season's largest crowd away from Twickenham, with 21,000 fans bearing witness.
In early July, the federal government deployed law enforcement officers to Portland for the stated purpose of protecting federal property amid the unrest.
Of the bar's current location, New York magazine said: "Despite the new space, [the bar] retains its penchant for irony-laced depravity." Alexander Cheves of them.
On 3 March 1933, the Prussian Ministry of Interior issued a circular to "suppress the nudist movement".
Contests The games were the same as those in Olympia including wrestling, pancration, and horse racing.
Making obscene telephone calls for sexual arousal or other sexual pleasure is known as telephone scatologia and is considered a form of exhibitionism.
In 1894 when Engelhardt was just a teenager his mother died, this was followed in 1896 by the death of his father.
He also interviewed celebrities (including John Lennon, Yoko Ono, and Michael Jackson) and interviewed politicians about the first amendment.
He also told the principal that he attended a party at Redding’s house at which alcohol was served to his peers.
It became famous and controversial for its lack of censorship and its depiction of marginalized communities and taboo themes.
The protest opened a conversation in Ireland about bodily autonomy for women, with broadsheets the Irish Times and Irish Independent both covering the incident.
At the same time, doctors of the Naturheilbewegung (Natural Healing Movement) were using heliotherapy, treating diseases such as tuberculosis, rheumatism, and scrofula with exposure to sunlight.
The person may be asked to “squat and cough,” with the aim of dislodging an object stored in the rectum or vagina.
At the insistence of Bethmann, who had not yet departed, Engelhardt went to the hospital in Herbertshöhe, where he was found to be in alarmingly poor health, weighing only 39 kg (86 lb) despite his height of 1.66 m (5 ft 5 in).
While its presumptive date of composition is 459 BC, the poem is known for its treatment of the Aeacidae and the suicide of Ajax.
In 1998, four officials at the Ministry of Finance were arrested and 112 were disciplined for accepting bribes in the form of visits to a no-pan shabu-shabu restaurant in Shinjuku.
Compliance is a 2012 American thriller film written and directed by Craig Zobel and starring Ann Dowd, Dreama Walker, Pat Healy, and Bill Camp.
Background Michael Crane pleaded guilty to aggravated sexual battery for two incidents on the same day in 1993.
In 2006, a report by the New South Wales Ombudsman advised the government to consider repealing this law, with figures published in the report revealing that 74% of people searched after an indication from a dog were not carrying any illicit drugs.
Rise By the mid-2000s, whale tails became common to celebrities, providing opportunities to the paparazzi.
It is thought that first recorded Games were in 776 BC but it is possible that they could have been around for many years before this according to scholar David C.
Wok Tai Wan was reclaimed for building one of the two towers of the bridge and for a pier supporting the road from the tower to the hill.
An undress code is a social norm which sets an upper limit on the amount of clothing that can or should be worn.
At the Conference of Badajoz–Elvas of 1524, where Portugal and Spain discussed the location of the meridian that divided their respective hemispheres, a young boy one day asked the delegates if they were trying to divide the world.
In 1984, AT&T moved to a new postmodern headquarters building at 550 Madison Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, designed by Philip Johnson.
"In the 4th year of the 202nd Olympiad, there was a great eclipse of the Sun, greater than had ever been known before, for at the sixth hour the day was changed into night, and the stars were seen in the heavens.
Once the Hieromenia was declared all violent conflict had to end in order to ensure safe passage to all those who wished to attend the Games.
These conclusions reveal the paradoxical nature of the new media economy: a system that provides a wider range of access to production, whilst simultaneously offers workers less security, safeguards and stable employment.
It also reported that there were differences between cases in which the child was a willing participant in the sexual acts and when they were not.
In 2025, pro-topless protesting took place in Switzerland, in the first event organized by the group outside of North America.
Dogging is a British English slang term for engaging in public sex, usually in a car park or country park, while others watch.
However, prince Archidamus, son of Agesilaus, distinguished himself in the defense of the city, in which we again see the courageous participation of Isidas.
Nipples are out!" 2013 January 18, 2013, Jones was interviewed by The Wall Street Journal about an off Broadway naked comedy show that she co-produced.
It identifies itself as the first and only regular club night of its kind in England not segregated by gender and open to adults of all ages and sexual orientations.
Similarly, there used to be an Oblation Run conducted in Taft Avenue, Manila in support of the APO members taking the bar examinations.
Works His chief work was the Olympiads, an historical compendium in sixteen books, from the 1st down to the 229th Olympiad (776 BC to AD 137), of which several chapters are preserved in Eusebius' Chronicle, Photius, and George Syncellus.
The tale has been adapted to various media, and the story's title, the phrase "the Emperor has no clothes", and variations thereof have been adopted for use in numerous other works and as idioms.
Figure On Diversity is one initiative which aims to increase representation in studio art and studio art education by creating resources in support of models who hold visible marginalized identities.
Female After Brigitte Bardot gained international fame in 1953 as the Bikini girl of the French Riviera, paparazzi popularized revealing accidents or staged events with women's swimwear throughout the decade.
Outside the United States during the same period, hygiene issues were recognized, but close supervision of swimmers and control of bathing suits could be an alternative to nudity.
Nowadays, there are also specific naked yoga clubs for homosexuals that are not simple yoga classes, but rather communities for keeping fit and sharing sexuality.
Sisyphus held the Games at a funeral in honor of Melikertes (later changed to Palaimon), a boy who drowned in the gulf.
More conservative viewpoints in the West in some contexts still find it appropriate that females should cover their shoulders, particularly when entering a church or other sacred space.
Horn explains: "Let's face it, there's a double standard when it comes to guy-on-guy as opposed to girl-on-girl.
Upon confronting the sphere's control center, Leela utters "holy cr—", triggering the censor, which sends a black, crude oil-like substance towards them.
The inspiration to take mass photos for his research came from the founder of eugenics, Francis Galton, who proposed such a photo archive for the British population.
The movement is known by mainly three organisations: the English Gymnosophical Society, Société Internationale de Gymnosophie, and the American Gymnosophical Association.
Undie Run World Naked Bike Ride References Further reading "No Pants Day: Semi-naked commuters ride trains".
A 2007 House of Representatives Committee on Health and Ageing report into breastfeeding recommended that Parliament House seek formal accreditation from the Australian Breastfeeding Association as a breastfeeding-friendly workplace.
Starting in 2018 and 2019, the look returned to prominence as fashion designers showcased the style at runways such as at the Met Gala.
By the early 1980s, the rise of home video had led to the end of the era when people went to movie theaters to see sex shot on 35mm film with production values, ultimately culminating with the rise of the internet in the 1990s and beyond.
One holds that it is an act of protest against the smoke, steam, and noise pollution generated by the railroad, which is known as the "Smog Railway" to some hikers.
Psychological aspects The term exhibitionist was first used in 1877 by French physician and psychiatrist Charles Lasègue.
Panhellenic Games is the collective term for four separate religious festivals held in ancient Greece that became especially well known for the athletic competitions they included.
The lawsuit sought a restraining order that would bar law enforcement officers from violating journalists' rights, as well as seeking damages for injuries, and it resulted in a restraining order.
It repealed various common law crimes (including rape and indecent assault) and replaced them with statutory crimes defined on a gender-neutral basis.
Further reading American Psychiatric Association, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Text Revision IV (DSM-IV-TR).
This declaration by the theoroi was essential because it ensured safe passage of spectators and competitors to the Panhellenic Game or Festival by mandating that all warfare that would interfere cease immediately.
Outside Japan, it has appeared at pop-up restaurant events in Britain and at certain restaurants and caterers in North America, the most popular and widely publicised example being in 2003 at the Bonzai pub and bistro in Seattle.
"The Emperor's New Clothes" (Danish: Kejserens nye klæder [ˈkʰɑjsɐns ˈnyˀə ˈkʰlɛːðə]) is a literary folktale written by the Danish author Hans Christian Andersen, about a vain emperor who gets exposed before his subjects.
On the surface, the photos were to assess the subject's posture (and thus health), but many believe Sheldon was using them to further his somatotype research.
The winner of the Isthmian Games originally received a pine crown, but in the Classical era dry celery was substituted.
Engelhardt continued to publish promotional literature including the bi-monthly "Für Sonne, Tropen u(nd) Kokosnuss!" between 1909 and 1913, co-funded by plantation manager, Wilhelm Bradtke, but his writings seemed increasingly confused.
Violations of these norms is not unheard of, sexual activity being reported at Lady's Bay beach in Auckland, New Zealand.
Women who took part in the movement expressed their desire to turn attention away from the excessive eroticization of the female body in American popular culture to more essential societal needs.
Use In the interest of bathers and swimmers, many bathing lakes prohibit ships and boats, fishing, dogs etc.
Vandalism and property destruction was an ongoing problem, with the deputy police chief estimating that about 150 to 200 people were prone to engage in property destruction, although many demonstrations were smaller than that.
The early 1990s saw construction of the Tsing Ma Bridge, an integral part of the Port and Airport Development Strategy.
Acanthus the Lacedaemonian (Ancient Greek: Ἄκανθος), was the victor in two footrace events, the diaulos (δίαυλος) and dolichos (δόλιχος), in the Olympic Games of 720 BC.
20) Compelling or causing a child to witness a sexual offence, a sexual act or self-masturbation (sec.
On 24 October 2011, economic inequality protester Liam Warriner of Sydney ran alongside the motorcade of Queen Elizabeth II and a waving Prince Philip for 50 metres with an Australian flag clenched between his exposed buttocks, before being arrested by police.
At Brown University, the nakedness is "more of an experiment in social interaction than a sexual experience".
Kabakon was in Neu-Lauenburg (the Duke of York Islands in the Bismarck Archipelago, now part of Papua New Guinea) and 28 miles from Herbertshöhe (today Kokopo), where the German New Guinea imperial administration was based at that time.
Other teachings The NCCBVJ teaches that nudity is a foundational state of being for leading a good life.
Australian radio station Triple J ranked it 64th on their annual "Hottest 100" list for the year of 1997.
Charli XCX wore a sheer black dress to the Brit Awards 2025, broadcast on television by ITV, and began an award acceptance speech with the comment: "I heard that ITV were complaining about my nipples.
Her research interests include, but are not limited to, media audiences, production studies and communication labor, citizenship and culture, Latin American and Latino media, and, alternative and community media.
According to The Oregonian, "Oregon state law is actually pretty lenient on nudity." There are laws about behavior while nude.
At a rate of 10 € per person approximately three times the amount required was collected in less than two months.
In ancient Greece, an agonothetes (Ancient Greek: ἀγωνοθέτης, plural agonothetae; ἀγωνοθέται) were the persons who decided the disputes and awarded the prizes in the Panhellenic Games.
Additionally there are spots up and down Puglia's coast where nude bathing coincides with predominantly, but not exclusively, gay and gay-friendly locals.
In Sweden, body activism and body positivity gained attention in a debate initiated in 2015 by Stina Wollter.
According to The New York Times (15 October 1905), "[f]or nearly two years more he continued to live the 'pure, natural life'".
While in the cave, God and the angel appeared again and gave Cosmos a revelation, which Cosmos recorded and named the Book of Zevs (also found as the Book of Zeus).
It separately considers "truck nuts" or other genitalia-related products on public display as a misdemeanor as well.
Nude psychotherapy was the use of non-sexual social nudity as an intentional means to improve the participant's psychological health.
The following day, the agency stopped bus, MAX, and Portland Streetcar service starting at 3:30 p.m., and said in a statement: "Our hearts at TriMet are heavy following the violence that damaged our city overnight, along with the emotions that are so raw here and across the nation.
Justice Stephen Breyer dissented, joined by Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor, and Elena Kagan.
Temple Art and Sculpture: The temples from the Gupta and post-Gupta periods, like Khajuraho, display intricate carvings of both divine and human figures in the erotic or non-erotic nude poses.
The term was re-popularized in the US after it appeared in a 1996 episode of Friends, where Joey Tribbiani wears everything Chandler Bing owns in an act of revenge, while also going "commando".
A planned photo shoot and content collaboration organized by APAC featured no female or non-white photographers.
The primary reason given by officials for nude swimming was public health, the technology for water purification being in development.
The convention Nudity was often thought to be an important aspect of Greek civilization and was frequent in places such as gymnasiums and when competing in games.
This is an example of a situation where "no one believes, but everyone believes that everyone else believes." Simply put, collective illusions arise when individuals conform to a group's false beliefs, often out of social pressure.
The various events, according to Apollodorus, were horse-racing, running in armour in the stadium, wrestling, chariot racing and discus, boxing, spear-throwing and archery, as well as musical contests.
Body activism is part of a movement that advocates for people's – both men's and women's – right to their own bodies.
As of 1 August 2016, it was noted that two of the women who had taken their tops off had been arrested, placed in handcuffs and were awaiting court dates.
Other game series such as Dead or Alive, The Sims, Fallout and Street Fighter subsequently received nude mods.
The old woman curses him to burn with love and never rest until he finds "The Seven Crooked Things".
Criticism for being anti-transgender Because of the title and content of The Vagina Monologues being body-centric, American University chose to change their production of it to a new show including all-original pieces, giving the production the name of Breaking Ground Monologues.
August 4, 2013, as featured in the local news site The Citizen / AuburnPub.com, Jones attended the annual Northeast Naturist Festival in upstate New York.
Dowd's performance as Sandra, the manager, won the National Board of Review Award for Best Supporting Actress.
"In an age of revenge porn and slut-shaming, where men threaten to humiliate women by posting pictures of their body parts online", Fitzpatrick noted that "the only defence is sexual confidence.
Special garments The leaders of each chorus group would wear a headpiece known as the "feather crown" or "thyreatic crown".
Later in 2004, the event moved to a pub near Columbia Road in Bethnal Green, where it rapidly gained a following among the gay community.
After intense fighting and atrocities committed by all sides, the Independent National Patriotic Front of Liberia, a breakaway rebel group led by Prince Yormie Johnson, captured and murdered Doe on 9 September 1990.
Procedures In traditional nyotaimori, the model is generally expected to lie still at all times and usually not talk with guests until the event is concluded even after all food is removed.
Physical training and maintenance of health and strength were the chief parts of children's earlier education.
Criticism Criticism from feminists The Vagina Monologues has been criticized by some within the feminist movement, including pro-sex feminists and individualist feminists.
They further wrote that the interrogation and cross-examination of the child can be more psychologically damaging than the sexual act itself.
She abandoned her plans to attend the University of Louisville, where she had anticipated becoming a pre-med student.
from The Evergreen State College in 1979 and an MFA from the American Film Institute Conservatory in 1987.
However, they say that no woman has been caught, except Kallipateira only; some, however, give the lady the name of Pherenike and not Kallipateira.
Yoko Taro, creator of the character and director of the Drakengard and Nier series, was intrigued and asked fans to send him pictures.
After Daniels stipulates that a male employee watch Becky for "security reasons", another employee, Kevin, is brought in, but refuses to follow Daniels' instructions and leaves.
Origins Since the poets most often call their victory songs hymnoi (ὕμνοι), it has been conjectured that hymns for Heracles, honored as the founder of the Olympic Games, were the original model for the athletic epinikion.
They saw rock music as the perfect medium to do so, as it had been the arena for the expression of masculine sexuality for so long, whereas women's bodies were often a marketing spice to add interest to a product rather than a source of personal empowerment.
See also Clothing-optional bike rides Nudity in sport List of public outdoor clothes free places == References ==
However, in practice, the likelihood of being prosecuted for nudity on a public beach is low, provided the person keeps to themselves.
History The Nudes-A-Poppin' pageant was organized by and held at Ponderosa Sun Club, a family nudist resort founded in 1964 and situated in Roselawn, Indiana.
She created a blog in November 2010 which contains a variety of topics such as nudism, social nude activities, feminism, and art projects.
Prosecution is possible for a number of offences under section 5 of the Public Order Act 1986, exposure under section 66 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003, or under the common law offence of outraging public decency.
Her younger brother Dorieus was the most successful, winning the pankration at 21 different Panhellenic games.
Traditional elements Nude weddings can include traditional flowers, veils and accessories, music, and food.
A popular hairstyle among children was the side-lock, an unshaved length of hair on the right side of the head.
to turn to an organization now headed by Deen's current partner, but Preston is not to blame for this.
Facebook controversy Facebook has been criticized for removing photos of mothers breastfeeding their children, citing offensive content in violation of the Facebook Terms of Service.
Background The Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania Drug Task Force suspected the husband and father of the plaintiffs of selling methamphetamines so they procured a search warrant for him, the house, his car and anyone customers that were present.
In December 2001, an Indianapolis-area Burger King restaurant's manager strip-searched a part-time, 15-year-old female employee in front of a male co-worker after a call was made to the business by a "policeman" claiming an employee stole a purse.
There have been incidents of owners of premises, or people present, objecting to or forbidding breastfeeding.
Other than the fact that people using a nude beach expect to find naked people on the beach, most other local laws and customs continue to apply.
Concepts of individuality and privacy were emerging in the context of cities, each of which was a world of its own.
He was already a seasoned child actor at the time, having been brought up in a show business family, and appearing in television commercials since early childhood.
emerged from the underground fetish and swinger scenes of East London in late 2003, when a nude barman at such an establishment launched the event after suggestions from co-workers and club patrons.
In May 2021, it was announced that the Windmill would reopen as a 350-seat restaurant and bar, with a cabaret.
Parties A number of colleges and universities have a tradition of nude parties, often as experiments in social interaction that run counter to the perfect bodies seen in the media.
Muppet Classic Theater has an adaptation of the story with Fozzie Bear as the emperor, and with Rizzo the Rat and two of his fellow rats as the swindlers.
He has also written screenplays for the Brazilian film A Partilha and Playing God as well as television shows The Magnificent Seven, Star Trek: Voyager, and Martial Law.
Umhlanga [um̩ɬaːŋɡa], or Reed Dance ceremony, is an annual Swazi event that takes place at the end of August or at the beginning of September.
The squats were used to dislodge objects possibly concealed in body orifices, and in some cases, detainees were hosed with strong jets of water to dislodge material hidden in their hair.
Van leaves guilt-ridden and is in turn replaced by the custodian, Harold, who is outraged by Daniels' instructions.
Rook thanks Stabler for not being a sheep, confessing to no explosives and no harm done to Benson; her screams were pre-recorded.
God further asks Adam, "Who told you that you were naked?" Only God, Adam, Eve, and the devil were a party to this matter; therefore, Christian naturists believe it was the devil who told Adam and Eve that they were naked.
The authors wrote that the psychological effects of the sexual acts on the child were dependent on the reactions of the parents, whose expressions of fear, hysteria and anger could cause the child to suffer lasting psychological effets.
Combat sports It is typically mandatory to compete barefoot in combat sports which allow kicking such as mixed martial arts.
The plot of the movie is closely based upon the series of strip search phone call scams that took place in Mount Washington, Kentucky in 2004, although the names of the real-life figures were changed.
Breastfeeding in public is forbidden in some jurisdictions, not regulated in others, and protected as a legal right in still others.
Origin The game of strip rock-paper-scissors is mentioned in 甲子夜話 Kasshiyawa, a Japanese collection of essays first put out in 1719.
In some countries, exposure of the body in breach of community standards of modesty is also considered to be public indecency.
Some monologues include: I Was Twelve, My Mother Slapped Me: a chorus describing many young women's and girls' first menstrual period.
Some national federations have independent youth organisations that are not directly affiliated with the INF.
History The annual No Pants Subway Ride event is organized by Improv Everywhere, and has coordinators in cities around the world.
Arrest On March 6, 2021, Burck was arrested in Daytona Beach, Florida, where he was appearing at Daytona Beach Bike Week.
All stamps of the set exist in an imperforated form, and as line pairs and se-tenant stamps without perforations between the elements, but with external perforation.
He rented boats instead to take the members to the bay and reformed his club as a sunbathing club 1950s.
Nude mods usually skew towards a male audience, and are often controversial with game developers and some fans, though other developers take a laissez-faire attitude or even support their creation.
A 2023 comprehensive study published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology measured gender differences in narcissism among a sample size of over 250,000 people, found that men scored higher in narcissism than women.
Evidence and acceptance of the theory Paraphilias within the Courtship Disorder spectrum co-occur with each other more frequently than with paraphilias outside the courtship disorder spectrum.
Sandra's fiancé Van takes over; under pressure from Daniels over the beers he drank before driving to the restaurant, he has Becky perform nude jumping jacks, ostensibly to shake loose any contraband concealed in her body.
Specific years Overview 1971–present Notes 2000 crush During Pearl Jam's concert at the Orange Stage on 30 June 2000, a crowd crush occurred.
In order to protect themselves and to do more damage the opponents bound their hands and wrists with long leather strips.
Sexual selection may also account for the remaining human hair in the pubic area and armpits, which are sites for pheromones, while hair on the head continued to provide protection from the sun.
Pausanias tells of the most recognized myth that the Games were originally funeral Games to honor the death of baby Opheltes, the infant son of Lykourgos and Eurydike.
Wearing only a thong and a pair of trainers, she ran onto the field with the words "Only Teasing" written across her breasts.
The largest collection of the work of Karl Wilhelm Diefenbach in the United States is held by The Jack Daulton Collection in Los Altos Hills, California.
In particular, Alan Wainwright was handled in a way that Home Office counsel that later conceded was battery.
Under a deal worked out between Governor Kate Brown and the Trump administration, federal agents withdrew to standby locations on July 30, while state and local law enforcement forces took over responsibility for protecting the courthouse; they made no arrests and mostly stayed out of sight.
Ancient literature suggests that the figures represent the androgynous Cypriot deity Aphroditus (possibly a form of Astarte), whose cult was introduced into mainland Greece between the 5th–4th century BCE.
A strict social taboo against interracial relationships also prohibited African American men and boys, even if not nude, from swimming in front of white women and girls.
So her sex was discovered, but they let her go unpunished out of respect for her father, her brothers and her son, all of whom had been victorious at Olympia.
The controversy resulted in the script being modified in 2008 to change the age of the statutorily raped girl from 13 to 16 and to remove the "good rape" line.
The performance was covered by the 2006 documentary Beautiful Daughters, which displays the hardships the all-transgender cast faced with the production.
standard applies to such searches", such as (but not limited to) the minority of the en banc Ninth Circuit in this case, as well as the Sixth Circuit, which had previously "upheld a strip search of a high school student for a drug, without any suspicion that drugs were hidden next to her body".
The upper two levels of the towers are adorned with corner pilasters, which feature coins and vases.
The old necropolis in the south-eastern part of the monastery is remarkable for its ornate tombs, executed by some of the best Russian sculptors.
Most recently, the David House Agency worked on the wrongful conviction case of Matthew and Grace Huang, a Los Angeles couple erroneously accused of starving their 8-year-old adopted daughter to death in Qatar in January 2013.
The idea is that they will eventually excrete all the contents of their digestive system, and lacking any toilet, they will be unable to dispose of it and thereby prevent prison officials from acquiring the evidence.
Jennifer Hyatte — a former prison nurse who fatally shot a corrections officer while trying to break her husband, George Hyatte out of custody.
The unit, located along Farm to Market Road 3514, is 4 miles (6.4 km) southeast of downtown Beaumont.
Alexander Schauss, director of American Institute for Biosocial Research in Tacoma, Washington, did extensive research into the effects of the color on emotions at the Naval Correctional Facility in Seattle and named it after the institute directors, Baker and Miller.
Since prison gangs gain a long-term profit if transactions in the illicit market run smoothly, they have the incentive to ensure that there is order and cohesion between suppliers and consumers.
As of 2016 there are 45 prisons under the control of the Ministry of Justice, housing about 27,600 prisoners.
In May 2018, Richard Silverstein reported in his blog, Tikun Olam, that Prisoner X2, still unidentified, had been released from custody.
In 1645 retired Colonel Stephan Lozko donated the Bernardinians' lands in front of the Mazyr Castle and started the construction of the stone monastery.
Deductions are then taken for taxes, victim restitution, program costs and court-imposed legal obligations.
The area where the Abbey is located was then part of what is sometimes referred to as the Angevin Empire.
See also Lhasa Tibetan Money Army of Tibet Tsarong Human Rights in Tibet Tibet since 1950 Central Tibetan Administration Ganden Phodrang Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama References External links 29.67917605°N 91.13947266°E﻿ / 29.67917605; 91.13947266 History of Drapchi Prison
Although he was eventually released on bail, it was widely reported that his health had deteriorated significantly, and he was seen walking with the assistance of supportive equipment.
The church was part of a complex which also contained a school and the administrative buildings of the dioceses of the kaza of Antep.
On 3 November, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) attacked Egyptian and Palestinian forces at Khan Yunis.
The prison was established in 1955 and has been associated with the Luojiadu Coal Mine (罗家渡煤矿) for decades.
The Pennsylvania Prison Society is an advocacy group that supports prisoners, formerly incarcerated individuals and their families.
As of 2012, operational local prisons in England and Wales for female prisoners are: Bronzefield Eastwood Park Foston Hall Holloway New Hall.
History A nunnery was founded by Count Sunyer I and his wife Richilda of Toulouse next to an ancient church dedicated to Saint Saturnin.
Other versions of the paradox replace the death sentence with a surprise fire drill, examination, pop quiz, A/B test launch, a lion behind a door, or a marriage proposal.
The Ipatiev Monastery (Russian: Ипатьевский монастырь; also Ipatievsky Monastery), sometimes translated into English as Hypatian Monastery, is a male monastery situated on the bank of the Kostroma River just opposite the city of Kostroma.
The abbots of Schussenried Abbey regularly visited other Swabian monasteries for ideas for those buildings.
In July 1987, New York State established the Shock Incarceration Program through legislation, which mandated that the Department of Corrections and Community Services (DOCCS) create a six-month program that would prepare young, non-violent inmates for early release consideration.
On the site of the destroyed Chudov Monastery and the nearby Ascension Convent the Soviet government built the Red Commanders School.
The Westmorland Institution is a Canadian federal corrections facility located in the village of Dorchester, New Brunswick.
Initially built as an Armenian Apostolic church, it was converted into a stable after the Armenian genocide and later into a jail.
After the original settlement was destroyed during the Siege of Königsberg, the church was rebuilt in stone in 1263.
In 1505, the territory of Pfalz-Neuburg was created, which inherited the rights of the County of Graisbach, including territorial rights over Kaisheim.
The planning of a new prison in Ringerike went on for decades, as the former prison in Hønefoss was both impractical and outdated.
The establishment serves as a local community prison that holds adult and under 21 males who are remanded in custody for trial and those convicted but remanded for reports.
The riot occurred after rumors spread that other Sri Lankan prisons were transferring their prisoners infected with COVID-19 to Mahara.
On March 18, 84 out of 518 inmates escaped from a prison in San Carlos, Zulia, after restrictions against the pandemic were announced, including jail visits.
In recent years, the NABPP has built the "United Panther Movement" (UPM) which involves "parallel constellations of activists from all races and genders".
From 1982-2000, the program was housed in the basement of the Red Sun Press, a print shop in Jamaica Plain.
For centuries, it has been one of the centers of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church in Western Ukraine.
See also Adra Prison Hama massacre Human rights in Syria List of massacres in Syria References External links A 1996 Human Rights Watch report on Tadmor prison "Inside Tadmur: The worst prison in the world?".
It also has an intramural security section and three pavilions for the open regime located outside the prison walls, the latter built in 1994.
The private house where Mandela lived has been declared a South African National Heritage Site, and a statue of Mandela stands just outside the prison gates.
Although in 1346 the abbey succeeded in obtaining from the Emperor Charles IV a confirmation of the rights included in the charter, and was declared an Imperial abbey (German: Reichstift), the Wittelsbachs were not inclined to honour it.
Sabela is a covert communication dialect of several major South African languages formed by the Numbers gang.
Among the famous nuns were Dosiphea, alleged to be the same person as Princess Tarakanova, and the serial killer Darya Saltykova.
Investigative journalist Ruth Hopkins has mentioned that the South African minister for correctional services S'bu Ndebele in 2013 would arrange an investigation which would be published within 30 days.
They were given a last chance to take the oath to the government, then taken down the stairs to the garden before the crowd of Sans-Culottes, who were armed with axes, pikes and swords.
The total area the prison covers is 162 square kilometres (63 sq mi), 130,000 mu of cultivated land and 8,000 mu of water area.
Himachal Pradesh Model Central Jail, Kanda, Shimla Model Central Jail, Nahan, Sirmaur Himachal Pradesh also has 2 district jails, 8 sub-jails, 1 borstal school and an open air jail.
While Diffie and Hellman could not find such a system, they showed that public-key cryptography was indeed possible by presenting the Diffie–Hellman key exchange protocol, a solution that is now widely used in secure communications to allow two parties to secretly agree on a shared encryption key.
Eight of the officers would be indicted for conspiracy, four for tampering with physical evidence, and nine for using a false instrument for filing a report.
It is operated by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, a division of the United States Department of Justice.
Michael Gottlieb Bindesbøll was charged with the design of the new building that was inaugurated on 18 December 1949.
In 2012, the Inspector of Prisons described parts of Limerick Prison as dirty, unhygienic, and severely overcrowded.
In 1915, almost all of the Gaziantep Armenians were deported to the Syrian Desert during the genocide.
The final boxing scene at the climax of the 2017 film A Prayer Before Dawn was filmed at CPRDC, as Thai authorities denied permission for filming in the real Klong Prem prison.
While the organization is based in Massachusetts, it mails packages of books to people in prisons in 45 U.S.
Australia United Kingdom United States Zimbabwe References External links Prison Slang (US and UK) A vocabulary of criminal slang: with some examples of common usages by Jackson
While sometimes viewed by mainstream audiences as depressing, the target audiences are prisoners who gain a sense of shared experiences and the assurance that others are going through the same difficulties.
Two sergeants at Mid-State were each charged with second-degree manslaughter after being accused of doing nothing to stop the assaults while supervising the area where Nantawi was beat to death.
Ekwulobia Prison is a federal medium security prison sited closely to the former vice President Alex Ekwueme's Oko Community in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State, Nigeria.
In 2011 the metal products plant closed; its operations were consolidated to the plants at the Coffield Unit and the Powledge Unit.
In 1933, the Rote Hilfe had 530,000 members, of which 119,000 were also members of the KPD and 15,000 were members of the SPD.
The site was later purchased by surviving family members of the aristocracy who were buried in the common graves of the site.
The last addition to the complex was a huge multi-storied bell-tower, modelled after Ivan the Great Bell Tower of Moscow Kremlin.
In September 2014 the bureau announced that it was going to begin publishing inmate information online by the end of 2014.
On August 21, 2018, another prison strike, sponsored by Jailhouse Lawyers Speak and the Incarcerated Workers Organizing Committee, took place in 17 states from coast to coast to protest what inmates regard as unfair treatment by the criminal justice system.
See also Hoeryong concentration camp Yodok concentration camp Human rights in North Korea References External links "Escapees from North Korean Hell", Le Monde, May 14, 2001.
Terence Bond of the Probation service based at HM Prison Lancaster received the MBE in the 2008 new Year Honours list.
Many of the terms deal with criminal behavior, incarcerated life, legal cases, street life, and different types of inmates.
facility licence This class of licence is granted to allow prisoners to participate in Community Service projects, attend life skills or education courses, undergo employment training, act as a police witness, attend at proceedings at civil courts, or visit a legal advisor.
In 2025, the Estonian justice minister reported Viru Prison would remain open, as "Society needs prison buildings".
Vadstena Abbey, however, was exempted from this ban and allowed to accept novices even after the Reformation, though only by special permission from the monarch.
Bishop Vassian lost his see, but acquired a new title - Bishop of Krutitsy, and retained the old one.
Incident The incident occurred in two different series of actions: the first on 25 July 1983 when 35 Tamil prisoners were attacked and killed by Sinhalese inmates.
History Lepoglava prison was formed in 1854 in a monastery formerly owned by the Pauline Fathers, which was transformed by the authorities into a penitentiary (this order would wait until 2001 for a part of its property there to be returned to the bishopric).
Dissident journalist Vladimir Kara-Murza was later transferred elsewhere and then, in August 2024, released from detention.
It was the primary place for the detention of political prisoners before 2005 when the newer and modernised Chushur (Chinese: Qushui) Prison was built.
Other Buildings The convent consists of several other buildings: A two-storeyed wooden house with a wooden roof.
See also Brandvlei Correctional Centre Drakenstein Correctional Centre Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre Pollsmoor Prison Moses Sithole serial killer Westville Prison == References ==
If the administration's refusal to participate becomes a valid reason to spike a story, we have effectively handed them a 'kill switch' for any reporting they find inconvenient.
The Vogtei, initially the property of the Counts of Fenis, passed from them to the Counts of Neuchâtel-Nidau, and from them at the end of the 14th century to the city of Bern, which in took over the domain of Erlach in 1474, definitively acquiring it in 1476.
In 1793 the archbishop Grigorij Konisski initiated construction of a warm winter cathedral that was consecrated by the archbishop Anastazy Bratanowski-Romanenko in 1798.
She founded several Franciscan houses in Denmark, including the one in Copenhagen, to whom she gave the farm which stood at the time outside the town.
The church's triptych by Anton Möller in 1586 depicted Judgement Day, while its framing was probably designed by Michael Doebel the Elder in 1690.
The society received funding for its activities from charity concerts, literary readings, fundraising events, and voluntary donations from the intelligentsia.
Coiste na nIarchimí (Ex-Prisoner's Committee) is an organisation founded in 1998 to facilitate the reintegration of Irish Republican released prisoners of The Troubles.
In 1957, North Carolina established a statewide “work release” program in its prisons for both misdemeanants and felons and California established a county option work release program for misdemeanants in jails the same year.
The remains of some of these prisoners have now been identified in a mass grave uncovered during building works in 2013 just outside the cathedral precinct near Palace Green.
This list consists of fictional prisons from various works of literature, film and television: == References ==
The prison which was the only infrastructure given to the Ekwulobia community during the Shagari era in the second republic, has an operational housing capacity of 85 inmates.
Simonov Monastery (Russian: Симонов монастырь) in Moscow was established in 1370 by the monk Feodor, a nephew and disciple of St Sergius of Radonezh.
The Onsong concentration camp was an internment camp in Changpyong, Onsong County, North Hamgyong, North Korea.
The evidence required for a rape conviction has also been relaxed as most laws now recognize rape where there is a lack of affirmative consent rather than the more strict requirement that there be an exertion of force by the defendant and active resistance by the victim.
In 2011, he received a fellowship at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, and in 2012 was awarded the Federalist Society's Bator Award, given annually to a young scholar under 40.
Currently, the facility is managed by Delaware County, which took back control of the jail as of April 6, 2022 and generally houses inmates with sentences of two years less one day each or state sentences of five years less one day each.
Notable prisoners Elmer Wayne Henley John Curtis Dewberry James Bergstrom References External links "Stiles Unit." Texas Department of Criminal Justice Rodriguez, Brenda.
Bauer had worked at the Winn Correctional Center in Winn Parish, Louisiana, then operated by Corrections Corporation of America (now CoreCivic), as an undercover journalist in 2014.
São Paulo's secretary of Public Security, Marco Antônio Petrelluzzi, declared: "This was worse than just poor management.
Prison strike Later, on 4 August 1972, PROP organise a 24-hour general strike in support of the demands in the PROP charter.
Kim fundamentally argues that the advance of carceral feminism has been framed by contradictions and paradoxes of reform politics.
In 1360, when Tarnovo was the capital of the Second Bulgarian Empire and the traditions of hesychasm were popular in Bulgaria, it became an autonomous monastery on the order of Tsar Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria.
Lincoln Hills School (LHS) for boys is a "type 1 secured juvenile correctional facilit[y]" operated by the Wisconsin Department of Corrections.
The opening of the psychiatric clinic at Waldau near Bern made it possible to close the ancillary asylum in 1855.
The group's 2019 gqom single "Baita Jou Sabela" (featuring Slagysta) contains lyrics partially written in Sabela that talk about the South African prison system.
The strike was the result of a call to action after a deadly riot occurred at Lee Correctional Institution in April of that year, which was sparked by neglect and inhumane living conditions.
The Shanghai Municipal Prison Administration (Chinese: 上海市监狱管理局) is an agency of the Shanghai Municipal Bureau of Justice of Shanghai, China, a direct-controlled municipality.
The minaret collapsed during an earthquake in the 19th century and the mosque was abandoned by the Ottomans after the Liberation of Bulgaria in 1878 and was subsequently used for profane purposes as a military warehouse and prison.
On 19 April 2004 a 15-year-old boy, Gareth Myatt, died while being restrained by guards at the centre, which at the time was run by G4S.
A week later, Tansaout noted the 23 December release of 13 prisoners of opinion, after they had served a six-month term, but overall saw "no sign of deescalation by the regime".
In the 1979 earthquake the monastery was significantly damaged and in 2002 it was completely rebuilt and new frescoes were painted in the smaller church (dedicated to the Dormition of the Mother of God).
There was also a station on the trade route connecting Archangel (the main sea port of Muscovy) and the Russian capital of Moscow.
Jėzaus Širdies bažnyčia) is a Roman Catholic church in the Vilnius Old Town, which was built in 1694–1756 and consecrated in 1756.
Notable prisoners Current prisoners Shinji Aoba – perpetrator in the Kyoto Animation arson attack (sentenced to death) Kazuhiro Ogawa – perpetrator in the 2008 Osaka adult movie theater fire.
In his 2015 breakthrough single Tyveri, Danish singer Hasan Shah sings "Hvis jeg havner i Vestre Fængsel..." (English: If I end up in Vestre Fængsel...").
Technological advancements and infrastructural upgrades characterized the decade, along with a noteworthy escape incident in 1993.
Tattoo equipment is also considered contraband, and tattooing can be considered by prison officials to be a punishable form of self-mutilation.
Several United Nations Resolutions have called for the elimination of honor-related violence and urged member states to enact and enforce laws against such practices.
Count Mikhail Muravyov-Vilensky donated significant sums for the reconstruction, and writer Ivan Aksakov assisted him in transferring the funds.
Public transportation access Moscow Metro: Kropotkinskaya, Park Kultury-Radialnaya Convent territory is open for general public in daytime, until the end of 5pm Vespers, with certain limitations; photography inside the walls requires prior consent of hegumenia Iuliania.
Haryana Central Jail, Ambala Central Jail-I, Hisar Central Jail-II, Hisar Haryana also has 18 district jails.
In October 2006, Yuri Luzhkov approved a Russian Revival design by Alexander Obolensky on condition that the building's height would be decreased.
Some historians state that the monastery was founded in 1275 by Yaroslavich, but declined together with the Kostroma Principality after his death.
Inmates typically earn between US$0.23 and US$1.15 per hour, and all inmates with court-ordered financial obligations must use at least 50% of this UNICOR income to satisfy those debts.
Progressive professional training of entire prison officers and ranks of Prison Departments of all the Provinces, Gilgit - Baltistan and Azad Jammu & Kashmir on uniform basis.
The city of Byaroza-Kartuskaya (Carthusian Byaroza) was renamed Byaroza-Kazionnaya (State-owned Byaroza).
During the twentieth century, the prison was a home for numerous "unwanted" groups and political prisoners.
Gerhard Fisher studied electronics at the University of Dresden before emigrating to the United States.
H Wing, the women's unit, was designated Hogarth Wing, commemorating two nurses who served in the Second World War.
Nonmonastic clergy and laymen could be sentenced to detrusio in monasterium (confinement in a monastery), which could consist either of simply living in a monastery or of being incarcerated in a monastic prison.
Special supplements Inside Time also publishes: Inside Information – a comprehensive guide to prisons and prison related services; the book is provided free of charge to all prison libraries.
From 1870 it was known as Christianshavns Straffeanstalt (Christianshavn Penitentiary) and served as a prison for women.
HMP Lancaster Castle was reopened to become a visitor attraction, where you can now visit the prison.
'Seven Apostles of Bulgarian Orthodox Church') and formerly the Black Mosque (Turkish: Kara Camii) is a Bulgarian Orthodox church, located in Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria.
Gerald was made Abbot when the abbey was transferred to Tewkesbury by William Rufus and Robert Fitz Haimon.
Alexius (which he had built) to the Cathedral of the Dormition and then to another church in Moscow.
West Carroll Parish Detention Center was a parish jail in West Carroll Parish, Louisiana == References ==
One of the most active organization in the 1910s was a group assisting political prisoners held in the Shlisselburg Fortress, directed by M.
These included increasing the time of family visits from 30 to 45 minutes, allowing prisoners to have radios and televisions inside their cells, and removing asbestos from cell ceilings.
Swe Win, who was imprisoned in Myingyan prison from 1999 to 2005, said in an article for Asia Times in 2009 that up until the ICRC visit to the prison in October 1999, he experienced various forms of torture at Myingyan.
However, in 2007 the church and monastery were returned to the Lithuanian Catholic Church and in 2012 nuns established a hospice.
Stafford Creek Corrections Center (SCCC) is a Washington State Department of Corrections state prison for men located in Aberdeen, Washington.
They were awaiting trial when they broke out of their cell at the Medium "A" section of the prison on 21 February 2010 by sawing through a steel door and the grill gates.
History The Helsinki Central Prison, commonly known as Sörnäinen or Sörkka (Sörkan) prison, was established following a decision by the Finnish Senate in 1874.
The New Afrikan Black Panther Party (NABPP) is a Black Power Marxist–Leninist–Maoist organization in the United States, largely based out of the Red Onion State Prison in Wise County, Virginia and referred to as the New Afrikan Black Panther Party – Prison Chapter (NABPP-PC).
These were replaced by newer facilities H, J, K, and L wings, which were subsequently renamed in honour of notable Jersey citizens who served during World War I and World War II.
Saint Alexander Nevsky Lavra or Saint Alexander Nevsky Monastery was founded by Peter I of Russia in 1710 at the eastern end of the Nevsky Prospekt in Saint Petersburg, in the belief that this was the site of the Neva Battle in 1240 when Alexander Nevsky, a prince, defeated the Swedes.
In July 2010 the International Centre for Prison Studies incorporated and registered as a charity with the Charities Commission of England and Wales.
It represents the neo russian style and differs in its fractional and plastered facades, which feature many kokoshniks, columns, different shirinkis (a type of coffers), "runners", "perspective" portals, tented roofs, among others.
A member of the Church of England, he has been a prison chaplain at a number of institutions in the UK.
This day is considered the official founding date of the Alexander Nevsky Lavra." (April 5, 1713 Gregorian was March 25 Julian, feast of the Annunciation.) "The relics of St.
Five Army officers led by Moslemuddin were refused entry to the jail by the Deputy inspector general of prisons but were eventually allowed following the orders of President Khondaker Mostaq Ahmad.
As one of the 40-odd self-ruling imperial abbeys of the Holy Roman Empire, Kaisersheim was a virtually independent state.
They include: Lobbying decision makers, such as the Basque Government, Spanish Government and the European Parliament, to take action to safe-guard the rights of the prisoners.
Over 5,000 acres (2,000 ha) of land at Wrightsville is dedicated to the raising of cattle and the production of hay.
The only result of the wrath of the British Government was that I found God." Dudu Miyan (1857–61) Subhas Chandra Bose Hemchandra Kanungo Kanailal Dutta Satyendra Nath Bosu Gopinath Saha Ananta Hari Mitra Dinesh Gupta Birendranath Sasmal Jawaharlal Nehru K.
The prison have seats in total, of which 24 seats are under the arrest department used by the Police of Denmark.
Terms can also lose meaning or become obsolete such as "slammer" and "bull-derm." Examples Prison slang, like other types of slang and dialects, varies by region.
Activities Criminal activity in Japan associated with the Luffy robberies is believed to have begun in the summer of 2021, with over 50 cases reported across 14 prefectures linked to the group.
Catherine Parish) - Capacity of 120 Remand There are two remand centres: Horizon Adult Remand Centre (HARC) Saint Andrew Juvenile Remand Centre.
FPC Yankton is located 60 miles (97 km) northwest of Sioux City, Iowa, and 85 miles (137 km) southwest of Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
The David House Agency is a Los Angeles-based international crisis resource agency that helps international travelers facing wrongful imprisonment and other complex legal and political situations abroad.
The loss of the material caused difficulties for the group at a time when 5,150 Palestinian prisoners, many assisted by Addameer, were incarcerated by Israel, and often in Israel, in contravention again of international law.
For the 2018 exhibition around 220 art works were exhibited at the Southbank Centre show, which included art, sculpture, creative crafts, printmaking, written and spoken word, music and film.
Mission Institution is a minimum and medium security federal institution within the Correctional Service of Canada and is located in Mission, British Columbia.
Inmates In 1831, Robert Wedderburn (radical) was arrested and sent to Giltspur Street Compter as he continued to campaign for freedom of speech, antislavery and working-class revolution.
It was the scene of a portion of the September Massacres, one of the bloodiest episodes of the French Revolution.
You get caught doing it once, they keep your hands handcuffed behind your back so you can't throw anything.
It officially began operations on 1 January 1935 as a wholly-owned corporation of the US Government.
In August 2006 began building a new construction that will hold 3000 inmates, 540 People's Police, and will cover an area of 400.46mu.
Justice Minister Mark Furey announced that the use of body scanning technology had eliminated the need for dry cells.
The monastery has since been restored and operates several museums, including one dedicated to Nicholas II of Russia.
On 9 September, the CNLD announced the release of Hakim Aissi, who risked up to 10 years of imprisonment for "assaulting national unity" for having carried the Berber flag during Hirak protests.
The second massacre was two days later when Sinhalese inmates killed another 18 Tamil detainees and 3 prison deputies.
In 1857, construction began on the site of the Ilyinsky chapel of the Church of Protection, a new large church in honor of the Eleusa icon.
Inside Time Limited is a not-for-profit organisation run under the auspices of the New Bridge Foundation.
Beginning in the 1970s, the US Department of Justice funded many evaluations designed to see if work release decreased recidivism.
Blondel further described it as "...a style where the principles of art seem to be crushed under the weight of the Artist's ignorance".
The mausoleum was constructed by the architect Friedrich Lahrs and was finished in 1924 in time for the bicentenary of Kant's birth.
The facility was demolished in 2003 and the entire area once occupied by the jail now houses the new building of Gandhi hospital which was previously located at Secunderabad.
The building has now been redeveloped for multifunctional use, it includes co-working and education spaces, a cinema and a hotel.
Temporary licence, formally called release on temporary licence (ROTL) and also informally known as temporary release, is a form of temporary parole for prisoners in jail in English and Welsh prisons.
It has a 51 km (32 mi) border with Israel, and an 11 km (7 mi) border with Egypt, near the city of Rafah.
The separate system is a form of prison management based on the principle of keeping prisoners in solitary confinement.
The original female section of the prison is generally not used except in cases of severe overcrowding, as a new modern female unit has been constructed.
London's second Newgate Prison, built between 1768 and 1775, is an example of this style of architecture: reinforced walls almost without windows, a deliberate inelegance, and overt symbolism, such as carved chains over entrances were all designed to instill terror in those who saw it.
Intelligence reports have noted that drug-traffickers and other criminal organizations are switching to human cargo to obtain greater profit with less risk.
Sections demanding worked stone used Lincolnshire limestone (Barnack stone) from Verulamium; later worked stones include Totternhoe freestone from Bedfordshire, Purbeck marble, and different limestones (Ancaster, Chilmark, Clipsham, etc.).
It was built in the 17th century as a Catholic church of Bernardine monastery in late Baroque style in the form of a two-towered three-nave basilica.
The Chudov Monastery (Russian: Чу́дов монасты́рь, romanized: Chúdov monastýr'; more formally known as Alexius’ Archangel Michael Monastery) was founded in the Moscow Kremlin in 1358 by Metropolitan Alexius of Moscow.
Many more buildings were planned for the new monastery, but were not built because of deficient finances.
Location Klisurski Monastery has the status of a separate settlement in the Varshets Municipality of the Montana Province.
The Prisoner's Commission was manned by prisoners, deportees, and their families, who also organized escapes.
History The abbey, traditionally considered one of the oldest monasteries in western Europe, was held to have been founded by Saint Maximin of Trier in the 4th century.
Percival Leonard Ashford (5 June 1927 – 11 October 1998) was Chaplain-General of Prisons from 1981 to 1985.
CR collects data, pictures, and interview records of former prisoners to reveal inhuman punishments and human rights violations that have occurred inside the prison since the year of its opening in the 1930s.
Following the public outcry from the community residents, Anambra State traders, representative of the Aguata constituency and civic associations, the Boko Haram suspects were relocated out of the prison in October 2015.
The jail which has capacity for 1250 inmates but it hosts 2,750 prisoners including 350 foreign prisoners.
The St Giles's Roundhouse was a small roundhouse or prison, mainly used to temporarily hold suspected criminals.
Parole boards have often been looked at as a contributor towards mass incarceration and as an area needing great reform.
Copenhagen County's prison was used for prisoners from the suburbs as well as for employees at the royal court.
All of its structures demolished in 1929, as part of the Soviet Union's ongoing policy of state atheism.
Given that a strategy describes a set of pre-programmed rules that specify particular behaviours, an evolutionarily stable strategy is one that persists in a population due to its benefits to fitness.
Because the submissive is kept in a state of higher arousal and vulnerability, they may be more likely to take a compliant stance with the dominant.
He resides at Duijiangyan Base (part of the China Conservation and Research Centre for Giant Pandas).
These bachelor herds are generally smaller than herds of females, numbering around 4 members, compared to upwards of 10.
A third form is exhibited by tournament species in which males will fight in order to gain the 'right' to breed.
Common murres have the smallest territories, laying a single egg on a cliff ledge with just a few centimetres of space.
These species include Anthozoa (Corals) Goniastra australensis Stylophora pistillata Nematoda (Roundworms) Rhabditidae (Order Rhabditida) Caenorhabditis briggsae Caenorhabditis elegans Caenorhabditis sp.
Morgan's ideas were very influential in marxism, but Friedrich Engels, in his book The Origin of the Family, Private Property and the State (1884), argues that the Punaulan family is not a necessary stage for the development of the modern family and marriage.
This female preference leads to mating skew, with some males being more successful at copulating with females.
Many people with PCT may exhibit strong feelings of anxiety lasting from five minutes to two hours after coitus.
The Hanoverian is associated with the State Stud of Celle, the Rhinelander and Westphalian with the State Stud of Warendorf, the Brandenburger with the Principal Stud of Neustadt an der Dosse, and so on.
Zahavi's handicap principle may offer a resolution to the lek paradox, for if females select for the condition of male ornaments, then their offspring have better fitness.
Description of the estate The house was divided in two floors and a basement and it was surrounded by a garden.
Dolphins also seem to have been important to the Minoans, judging by artistic evidence from the ruined palace at Knossos.
Trematodes may have varying numbers of asexual generations and larval forms, but share a cercarial stage.
Orgasm imperative is often linked to broader societal narratives about sex and pleasure, which can sometimes prioritize certain aspects of sexual experience over others.
Music and dance The music and line dancing is typical of Fula traditions, which have largely disappeared among the vast diaspora of Fula people, many of whom are educated, Muslim, urbanites.
Origins According to Rossellini, the idea for Green Porno stemmed from her relationships with both Robert Redford and his Sundance Channel.
See also The King's Grave Trundholm sun chariot Skelhøj References Sources Goldhahn, Joakim (2006) Om döda och efterlevande med exempel från Bredrör, Skelhøj, Sagaholm och Mjeltehaugen (Bergen, Norway: "Arkeologiske Skrifter".
While the term is best known when applied to certain dog crossbreeds, other animals such as cattle, horses, birds and cats may also be bred in this fashion.
There are several types of CIDRs available, including CIDR-B for cattle, CIDR-S for sheep and CIDR-G for goats.
Legacy The canons resulting from the synod have a particular importance for the history of the institution of penance and are among the earliest evidence for the three-step system of penance, which later became the four-step system.
See also Georges Bataille Dhat syndrome Post-coital tristesse Postorgasmic illness syndrome Refractory period Sexual headache References == Further reading ==
Many males hypothesis According to Hrdy's many males hypothesis, sexual swellings enable a female to attract multiple different males as mating partners.
In 2018, Zhen Zhen was released into the wild as part of a research project, with a collar attached to her neck.
See also List of giant pandas List of individual bears References External links San Diego Zoo's Panda Cam: Meet the Pandas
The Corrections Department also claimed he was at high risk of re-offending although his score on the Department's main risk assessment tool (the RoC*RoI) placed him at medium risk.
So while cows are being selected based on increased milk fat content, the yield of milk they are producing may also go down, thus reversing the selection process previously performed to increase it.
Prey was bitten behind the head and was rapidly immobilized, although about 10% of the prey were able to jump once, during which time the spider held on.
The girl fiercely resisted and hit him several times, disorienting her attacker and forcing him to break a nearby window and flee.
Breeding also occurred in European zoos from the 18th century when monkeys were returned from sea voyages and the public took interest in them.
The second attack was inflicted on a 77-year-old man from a domesticated kangaroo in Redmond, Western Australia in September 2022.
In certain monogynous settings, however, paternal investment by the male is greater than that of males in other mating systems because the benefits of paternal protection exceed those of searching for additional mates.
Results from this study showed a greater proportion of neuronal activation when initially presented with a novel estrus stimulus in comparison to familiar estrus stimulus.
The paternal chromosomes are inactivated by heterochromatization in all the cells at an early embryonic stage.
As the snails approach mating, hydraulic pressure builds up in the blood sinus surrounding an organ housing a sharpened dart.
Taxonomy The species was first described by Eugène Simon in 1891, based on a specimen collected in the West Indian island of Saint Vincent.
They claimed to make no judgements of moral value, though their study is considered supportive of sexual relativism.
The philosopher Baruch Spinoza, in his Tractatus de Intellectus Emendatione, wrote: "For as far as sensual pleasure is concerned, the mind is so caught up in it, as if at peace in a [true] good, that it is quite prevented from thinking of anything else.
Allergic reactions In rare cases, people have been known to experience allergic reactions to seminal fluids, known as human seminal plasma hypersensitivity.
This concept is hard to understand and the evolution of cooperative breeding is important, but difficult to explain.
Mexican gray wolf courtship and mating: behavior & basic endocrinology during breeding season (PDF) (Thesis).
On the other hand, in a society with a high sex ratio, males will adopt a more long-term strategy to attractive females.
For example, costs may include discovery of sexual behavior outside the pair bond, with the risk of breakdown of the relationship with a long-term partner; in some cases, a discovered EPC leads to violence from partners.
Like men, it may be that only a minority of women are capable of multiple orgasms or lack a refractory period, but there is insufficient data to make a conclusion.
Diane Dodd used a laboratory experiment to show how reproductive isolation can evolve in Drosophila pseudoobscura fruit flies after several generations by placing them in different media, starch- or maltose-based media.
He was executed by hanging for charges of sodomy after being convicted for an alleged sexual act with an animal, in which it was falsely claimed that Spencer had fathered a female pig's offspring despite this being impossible.
All vertebrates share similarities in body structure; they all have a skeleton, a nervous system, a circulatory system, a digestive system and excretory system.
More broadly, weaponry in animals may consist of any specialized morphology that is present within an organism to aid in its advantage against rivals.
The male's pair of posterior claspers are known for having the ability to maintain long-term amplexus which have been found to always attach to the female's opisthosoma during amplexus.
In some cases where there is not a significant population of females in a particular breed, a bull may have a designated supply of semen collected and then be sent to slaughter.
As opposed to conferring social status, same-sex sexual behaviors are likely reflective of elevated arousal in female mountain gorillas.
The average gestation period is around 110 days; the female gives birth to a litter of between one and four cubs in a secluded den, which may be a thicket, a reed-bed, a cave, or some other sheltered area, usually away from the pride.
National Orgasm Day is a celebration of sexual climax and raises awareness for issues surrounding sexual climax.
Yun Zi (simplified Chinese: 云子; traditional Chinese: 雲子) is a male giant panda born at the San Diego Zoo on August 5, 2009.
A domestic animal of unknown ancestry, where the breed status of only one parent or grandparent is known, may also be called a crossbreed though the term "mixed breed" is technically more accurate.
chooser) female when mating with a target male and later recognizes the target male to mate with it.
Mating behaviours are affected by an individual's size and age, as smaller or younger individuals are more likely to attempt reproduction through alternative means, including mimicry or sneak tactics.
Villainous wolf characters also appear in The Three Little Pigs and "The Wolf and the Seven Young Goats".
The World Health Organization (WHO) states that non-English languages and cultures use different words for sexual activity, "with slightly different meanings".
This finding is perhaps more in line with the sexual selection based notion that, overall, males tend to exhibit more aggression.
Physiology Opportunistic breeders are typically capable of breeding at any time or becoming fertile within a short period of time.
However, appetitive behaviors are disrupted by the lesions in rostral part rather than caudal part of medial preoptic area.
In partnered sex During intercourse or other forms of sexual stimulation with a partner, one person stimulates the other(s) and reduces the level of stimulation when approaching orgasm.
The generic name Triaeris is derived from the Latin word triēris, meaning "three rows of oars" (as in trireme); the specific epithet stenaspis here means "with a narrow carapace".
"Spectatoring", the problem of perceiving sex as a performance rather than a mutual experience and process of pleasure "in the moment" can cause delayed ejaculation.
Females of high rank create networks of female alliances; together, they fight away persistent suitors.
Now facial cumshots are regularly portrayed in pornographic films, videos, magazines and internet web sites.
Traumatic insemination is not limited to male-female couplings, or even couplings of the same species.
The governor and deputy governor were frustrated that, despite their experiment, Hogg denied the charges.
For example, females may behave in ways that are considerably biased towards mating and fertilization success due to the attractiveness of males who exhibit a deceptive or exaggerated secondary sex characteristic.
They may share some or all of the tasks involved: for example, a breeding pair of birds may split building a nest, incubating the eggs and feeding and protecting the young.
WCF Philippines Mindanao National Cat Show 2025 Dongsky, a domestic shorthair, won Best in Show in the household pet category during Mindanao's first National Cat Show held at Ayala Malls Abreeza in Davao City on 19 June 2025.
That interaction is called gene-for-gene relationship and is, in general, widespread in plant diseases.
The miracidia are oval-shaped and their body is almost entirely covered in cilia except for the most anterior portions, taken up by "apical papilla".
Salamanders are explosive spawners and the females lay thousands of eggs which they attach to sticks below the water.
Examples Many amphibian species manifest nuptial pads for use in amplexus, an example being the rough-skinned newt, Taricha granulosa.
101) Grismer JL; Bauer AM; Grismer LL; Thirakhupt K; Aowphol A; Oaks JR; Wood PL; Onn CK; Thy N; Cota M; Jackman T (2014).
It proposes that testosterone promotes aggression when it would be beneficial for reproduction, such as mate guarding, or strategies designed to prevent the encroachment of intrasexual rivals.
However, males only have offspring by fertilizing eggs or ovules of hermaphrodites, while hermaphrodites have offspring both through fertilizing eggs or ovules of other hermaphrodites and their own ovules.
Romeo and Juliet are a pair of female mute swans that previously resided in the pond of the Public Garden of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, during the spring and summer months.
The absence of these receptors in the cells of the endometrium prevents the pulsatile release of PGF2ɑ.
He also identifies her with Kypris (Aphrodite) and mentions that Philotes feels hurt and offended by life-destroying offerings and demands the abstention from animal sacrifices.
For example, research has suggested that horns present in female bovids, may have evolved from competition for resources such as food.
MHC genes code for receptors that identify foreign pathogens in the body so that the immune system may respond and destroy them.
Research conducted throughout the world strongly supports the position that women prefer marriage with partners who are culturally successful or have high potential to become culturally successful.
Evolutionary origin Benefits Mate-choice copying has evolved to eliminate the possible costs—including time and energy —of mate-choice.
A donkey show is a type of live sex show in which a woman engages in bestiality with a donkey, which, according to urban legend and some works of fiction, were once performed in the Mexican border city of Tijuana, particularly in the mid-20th century.
Wolves do not bark as loudly or continuously as dogs do in confrontations, rather barking a few times and then retreating from a perceived danger.
Woodpecker chicks in cavities stack vertically to conserve space and heat, as seen in Eurasian wrynecks.
Long-term strategies are characterized by extended courtships, high investment, and few sexual partners.
Interlocus sexual conflict differs from intralocus sexual conflict, a similar theory in which a set of antagonistic alleles resides on the same locus in both sexes.
The terms edging and gooning have been adopted by Generation Z and older Generation Alpha as brain rot terminology, gaining popularity on TikTok.
Sheep and cow In most ruminant species, interferon tau has been identified as the signal for maternal recognition of pregnancy.
Considine, writing for Rolling Stone, derided "(I Just) Died in Your Arms" as a "pallid" imitation of the "pompous" synth-pop style of the band Asia.
In a study of dark-eyed juncos, the offspring produced by extra-pair males were neither better nor worse than the offspring of their male social partners.
Reproductive biology of the coyote (Canis latrans): integration of behavior and physiology (PDF) (Thesis).
showed that UV-induced cellular aggregation mediates chromosomal marker exchange with high frequency in S.
Multiple messages hypothesis The multiple message hypothesis states that different ornaments signal different properties of an individual's overall quality.
Brenner claims the book is autobiographical, and based on a series of events that happened to him in the 1970s.
If the sexual dysfunction is deemed to have a psychological component or cause, psychotherapy can help.
The chemicals secreted from the flower's osmophore glands are indistinguishable from the insect's pheromones.
Also, positive assortative mating for behavioral traits allows for more efficient communication between the individuals and they can cooperate better to raise their offspring.
During the breeding season (April–September in the Northern Hemisphere, September–January in the Southern Hemisphere), the size of herds greatly diminishes.
True breeding pairs are rare in amphibians or reptiles, although the Australian Shingleback is one exception with long-term pair-bonds.
The most characteristic features of the more primitive bony fishes is the assemblage of polyandrous (many males) breeding aggregations in open water and the absence of parental care..." There are two main reproduction methods in fish.
The project uses Sayaguesa cattle, Maremmana primitiva or Hungarian grey cattle, Chianina and Watusi.
While reproduction is generally independent of photoperiod, animals can still experience reduced fertility with changes in day-length.
The yellow headed blackbird is an example, where a male may have multiple females nesting in his territory.
These mechanisms have been substantiated across virtually every species that reproduces sexually, highlighting sexual selection theory as a pervasive evolutionary force.
frenatus, they exhibit the ability to change the colour of their skin, from dark gray or brown with light markings in daylight, to a pale, translucent colour at night.
Monogyny is a specialised mating system in which a male can only mate with one female throughout his lifetime, but the female may mate with more than one male.
These include sporadic wet and sporadic dry, describing animals that breed sporadically not always under favorable conditions of rain or lack thereof.
He was educated at Queen Elizabeth Grammar School in Wakefield and studied zoology at the University of Leeds where he graduated with a BSc in 1992.
Kisbér (1853) of Hungary The Irish National Stud (1946), which breeds Thoroughbreds Michałów (1953) of Poland, which breeds Arabians.
In dog breeding, three generations of reliable documented breeding can be considered a "breed" rather than a crossbreed.
Erotic sexual denial occurs when the partner who is in control of the other partner's orgasm prolongs the orgasm to allow for an increased level of sexual tension.
Monkeys reproduce without human interference, so their offsprings' characteristics are determined by natural selection.
For men, it is more difficult to fake an orgasm, since ejaculation usually accompanies orgasm in males, and their partners can usually see whether or not this happens.
She specializes as a trainer and supervisor in the field, in sex addiction, and also works within the criminal justice system.
Both males and females have been found to engage in more sexual behaviour outside of the monogamous relationship when experiencing sexual dissatisfaction in the relationship, although how this links to evolutionary theory is unclear.
Pheromone-receptor interaction occurs in a way that the pheromone from one individual interacts with the receptor from the partner and vice versa.
Adwaita, an Aldabra giant tortoise that died in 2006 in the Alipore Zoological Gardens of Kolkata, India, is believed to have lived to the age of 255 years, but this has not been confirmed.
Often, this crossbreed is part of a rotational crossbreeding scheme; if it also incorporates terminal crossbreeding, it is then called a rotaterminal system.
The exhibition was initiated by the Norwegian Archive, Library and Museum Authority (ABM) as part of their "Break" program, encouraging museums, libraries and archives to do research and exhibitions of controversial and taboo subjects.
The long-accepted "competing browser's hypothesis" originally put forth by Charles Darwin has been put into question.
Only individuals with different mating types are compatible with each other and therefore able to start the mating event.
In birds such as the red-collared widowbird, males who display their sexual ornament during courtship are generally paired up faster and attract more females than males who display shorter tails during courtship.
If one partner "cheats", and does not transfer sperm, the other partner will either prematurely abandon the partner, or will engage in typical mating behavior without transferring sperm.
The outputs portion may be calculated based on weight gained, on the whole animal at sale, or on the dressed product; with milk it may be normalized for fat and protein content.
Female grey mouse lemurs (Microcebus murinus) form social groups and cooperatively breed with closely related female kin.
The hybrid iguanas have a laterally compressed tail like that of the marine iguanas, though they have not been seen swimming.
They are commonly used in conjunction with a real female of the same species nearby, to help bring the male to sufficient arousal for them to mount the breeding mount and initiate copulation and eventual ejaculation.
It is proposed that in New South Wales the camp dingoes became wild only after the colonial destruction of Aboriginal society.
Subordinate dingoes approach a more dominant dog in a slightly crouched posture, ears flat, and tail down, to ensure peace in the pack.
Playful dolphin interactions with humans are the most obvious examples, followed by those with humpback whales and dogs.
Zhen Zhen has one half sibling, Hua Mei, and four full siblings, Mei Sheng, Su Lin, Yun Zi, and Xiao Liwu.
This phase begins immediately after ejaculation and lasts until the excitement phase of the human sexual response cycle begins anew with low-level response.
Miracidia will then grow and develop within the intermediate host into a sac-like structure known as a sporocyst or into rediae, either of which may give rise to free-swimming, motile cercariae larvae.
The prosecutor's office says no animal cruelty charges were filed because there was no evidence of injury to the horses.
A last example is in the house finch where they found that preen waxes on feathers acted as cosmetics and that the waxes increased the signal content of feather traits.
Organisms whose life history is subject to K-selection are often referred to as K-strategists or K-selected.
Penguins Prostitution in animals was first reported in 1998 by Fiona Hunter, a researcher at the University of Cambridge, and Lloyd Davis, of University of Otago, who had spent five years observing the mating behavior of Adélie penguins.
Tremblay's salamander (Ambystoma tremblayi) is a member of the family Ambystomidae from the United States of America and Canada.
See also List of giant pandas List of individual bears References External links San Diego Zoo Giant Panda Research Station
Other studies have found that anywhere from 25 to 74% of women admit to faking an orgasm at some point in their lives.
A specialized vocabulary exists for the studs of other animals, such as kennel (dog), cattery (cat) and aviary (birds).
The line "I just died in your arms tonight", which recurs throughout the choruses, was described by Van Eede as a "killer melody".
The sperm diffuses through the female's hemolymph, reaching the ovaries and resulting in fertilization.
She declared that she saw Claudine indecently caressing and playing with the white dog between the hind legs at the end of August.
Gerbilling is considered an urban legend and there is no evidence that the practice has ever occurred in real life.
The Arctiinae subfamily of Erebid moths uniquely respond to bat echolocation in three prevailing hypotheses: startle, sonar jamming, and acoustic aposematic defense.
This nucleus or cluster of cells is typically of bigger size in females than males, contrary to the sexually dimorphic nucleus (SDN) that is bigger in males.
The ability of an environment to increase energetic content, through photosynthetic capture of solar energy, increases with the increase in complex biodiversity as r species proliferate to reach a peak possible with K strategies.
These types of evidence of sperm allocation would suggest that Coolidge effect will determine how much sperm is invested into females, and if possible, sperm will be allocated so that sperm can be evenly distributed for multiple mates.
Females which mated with virgin males were less likely to suffer genital damage compared to those which mated with sexually experienced males.
Post mating, banana slugs will some times gnaw off their partners penis as an act of sperm competition called apophallation.
Supporting cast The Male Bees are played by Roberto Rossellini, Dallas Giorgi, and Louis Giacobetti.
Researchers observed chimpanzees in Taï National Park and concluded that a form of prostitution exists among the chimpanzees in which females offer sex to males in exchange for meat.
Career in journalism In the 1990s, Brenner worked as an investigative reporter covering the Navajo Nation and surrounding area.
The procedure is used for breeding programs and research purposes in various species, as well as in the treatment of ejaculatory dysfunction in human males.
Therefore, tandem selection has a major disadvantage to other major types of artificial selection for multiple traits, such as culling and index selection, as there is a tendency for the last trait to be lost as the next is being selected.
In the book The Adapted Mind: Evolutionary Psychology and the Generation of Culture (1995), Ellis conveys which features women link to high mate value.
Behaviour and ecology Lions spend much of their time resting; they are inactive for about twenty hours per day.
Alpha males, which represent the largest and most common male morph, defend harems to monopolize access to a large number of females.
Moreover, in physiological tests such as skin conductance and heart rate, men show greater levels of distress when asked to imagine a partner having sexual intercourse with another person.
Erotic sexual denial is a form of sexual activity whereby sexual gratification for one or both partners is delayed or "denied" in order to increase erotic arousal and/or tension.
In general, androgens are considered "male sex hormones", since they have masculinizing effects, while estrogens and progestogens are considered "female sex hormones", since they have feminizing effects, although all types are present in each sex at different levels.
Parenthood Research has found that fathers are less likely to view masculinity as fragile compared to non-fathers.
POIS is listed as a rare disease by the American National Institutes of Health and the European Orphanet.
The oldest stud farm in Europe still in existence today is the Mews of Einsiedeln Abbey (1064) in Switzerland where Einsiedler horses are bred.
For examples, damselflies in the family Calopterygidae typically display resource defense polygyny, in which territorial males guard riverine habitat that is sought after by females for egg deposition.
Asian cuisine In Indonesian cuisine, the milt (called telur ikan 'fish egg') of snakehead and snapper is usually made into kari or woku.
This study proposed to change the Criterion 3 with "In at least one ejaculatory setting (sex, masturbation, or nocturnal emission), symptoms occur after all or almost all ejaculations." Management There is no standard method of treating or managing POIS.
This increase in melatonin results in an increase in GnRH and subsequently an increase in the hormones LH and FSH, which stimulate cyclicity.
In the early 2000s, he found a group of men online, nicknamed "zoos", who began meeting at a farm in an unincorporated area of King County, Washington, for communal weekends.
Perineum pressing and retrograde ejaculation Perineum pressing results in an ejaculation which is purposefully held back by pressing on either the perineum or the urethra to force the seminal fluid to remain inside.
Koinophilia provides simple explanations for the almost universal canalization of sexual creatures into species, the rarity of transitional forms between species (between both extant and fossil species), evolutionary stasis, punctuated equilibria, and the evolution of cooperation.
The song has been featured in numerous films, video games, and television programmes, such as Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, The Lego Batman Movie, and Stranger Things.
To prevent their extinction, captive breeding has been needed, so their subsequent release into the wild requires teaching these routes to the juveniles.
Some of them are the Aboriginal Australians, the Venezuelan indigenous population, the Britons, based on the description of the Roman emperor Julius Caesar, and the Massagetae, based on the description of Herodotus.
Trichorhina tomentosa, known informally as the dwarf white isopod, is a species of woodlouse in the family Platyarthridae.
Women married to more possessive, controlling or jealous husbands are more likely to be unfaithful as well.
The term "little death", a direct translation of la petite mort, can also be used in English to essentially the same effect.
The site ultimately calculated that the film lost the studio $87.4 million, when factoring together all expenses and revenues.
The investigation into his crimes also facilitated the prosecution and conviction of other animal sadists within his global network.
The Reddit community /r/NoNutNovember grew from 16,500 subscribers in November 2018 to 52,000 subscribers in November 2019.
A nuptial pad (also known as thumb pad, or nuptial excrescence) is a secondary sex characteristic present on some mature male frogs and salamanders.
East Africa Uganda During the Kingdom of Buganda, the king of Buganda partook in polygynous marriages to reduce the chance of dissident and rival forces developing and rising against him.
The Smoot Hearings in 1904, which documented that the LDS Church was still practicing polygamy spurred the LDS Church to issue a Second Manifesto again claiming that it had ceased performing new plural marriages.
The expansion of the wings retains its position; CIDRs have very high retention rates that may exceed 97%.
Disabilities and other complications Obstacles that those with disabilities face with regard to engaging in sexual intercourse include pain, depression, fatigue, negative body image, stiffness, functional impairment, anxiety, reduced libido, hormonal imbalance, and drug treatment or side effects.
Babylon is a 2022 American epic period black comedy drama film written and directed by Damien Chazelle.
Unlike other species with cooperative breeding systems, human female "helpers" do not incur the cost of reproductive suppression at the benefit of a single, dominant breeding mother.
General description The term highlights the societal expectations surrounding orgasms in sexual relationships.
The probe delivers an AC voltage, usually 12–24 volts sine wave at a frequency of 60 Hz, with a current limited to usually 500 mA, although some devices can generate currents of up to 1 A.
Using mucus trails to find a mate involves the discrimination between conspecific and heterospecific trails.
Studies of sexual dimorphism raise the possibility that early human ancestors were polygamous rather than monogamous.
Elephant seals A good example of intrasexual selection, in which males fight for dominance over a harem of females, is the elephant seal – large, oceangoing mammals of the genus Mirounga.
For example, in a faltering marriage, an estranged husband may have an affair, and the wife may blame the alleged homewrecker for the breakup of the marriage, even though the affair itself was partly the result of stresses that pre-dated it.
At the 2015 conference (WRC-15), the ITU deferred their decision on whether to abolish the leap second to 2023.
In 2010, Electronic Beats Festivals with Hot Chip, Booka Shade, Moderat, Miike Snow, Delphic, The Human League, Little Dragon, Kele, Bon Homme, Nouvelle Vague, The Asteroids Galaxy Tour, Turboweekend and Róisín Murphy were held in Prague, Graz, Cologne, Berlin and Vienna.
ITU Telecom World is the most important event of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) for worldwide telecom industry and it is held every 3 to 4 years.
The KCC-approved comprehensive programming could potentially destroy the fair media practices starting in 2012 when the new television channels affect the domestic journalist scene.
and taking part in and contributing to international conferences, meetings and standardization activities.
had opened up to DECT, well into the new century, the industry had moved far ahead in terms of performance and DECT's time as a technically competitive wireless data transport had passed.
Depending on terminal type users can connect their computers via USB, Bluetooth, WiFi, or Ethernet connection(s).
This includes, but is not limited to, determination of the test specifications and methods necessary to support the certification process for 5G NR and 4G LTE wireless devices.
PENS do provide a common IP-based network service across the European region covering voice and data communication and providing efficient support to existing services and new requirements that are emerging from future Air Traffic Management (ATM) concepts.
Eurescom is a private organisation for managing European research and development projects in telecommunications.
GEO-Mobile Radio Interface (GEO stands for Geostationary Earth Orbit), better known as GMR, is an ETSI standard for satellite phones.
It was OPTAs responsibility to make sure that KPN would not push the new players out of the market through its sheer size.
Historically, these government agencies were often referred to, primarily in Europe, as PTTs (postal, telegraph and telephone services).
Many of these "notspots" were in rural areas or were the focus of economic regeneration programmes; local community organizations were beginning to develop their own services typically using Wi-Fi wireless technology but often without specialist telecommunications knowledge within their groups.
Because of a lack of backward compatibility with DVB-S2 decoders, Belgian company Newtec developed the 'DVB-S2plus/Extensions' technology.
2021 WIA has been the leading voice in lobbying Congress to include wireless for funding eligibility in its landmark infrastructure bill.
The Swedish Post and Telecom Authority (Swedish: Post- och telestyrelsen, abbreviated PTS) is a government authority under the Ministry of Infrastructure (Sweden) and is managed by a board of directors appointed by the Swedish government.
However, official statements from NTRA deny blocking, but after complaining it was mentioned in the news paper that the decision were made by the NTRA.
This process is required for all telecommunication products intended for sale or use in the country.
In February 2022, the Secretary-General of the United Nations called on the United Nations General Assembly to recognize "access to the internet as a basic human right, and for steps to achieve this for everyone everywhere by 2030, including through the Giga initiative ...".
Due to the nature of capital expenditure involved in the past, most telecommunications companies were government-owned agencies or privately owned monopolies operated in most countries under close state regulation.
Additionally, the event has included sessions on sustainable digital infrastructure and regulatory frameworks in its panels.
The Radio Control Division in the Bureau of Post was created under the jurisdiction of the then Secretary of Commerce and Communications.
Equipment that is covered by an operator’s Frequency License is exempt, as is the case for the three mobile operators Batelco, Zain and Viva and the National Fixed and National Fixed Wireless Service operators Bahrain Broadband (Greenisis), Mena Telecom and Zain.
Carrier identification code Each carrier (interexchange or local exchange) is assigned a four-digit identification code, the carrier identification code (CIC) which was used with feature groups.
The MHP specification defines the download of MHP applications ("xlets") over transmission networks based on other DVB specifications (i.e.
ITSPA's main activity is in making representations on behalf of the industry to Government bodies, such as the Home Office, the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (former DTI) and Ofcom.
ITERA is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization and was founded on the principle that leading educational institutions can greatly benefit from cooperative development of curricular and research objectives.
In the United States, it was used to deliver stock market quotations by Digital DJ beginning in 1998.
Interoute acquired the Ebone portion of the KPNQwest NV network from receivers McStay Luby in July 2002.
Following the EECC and the new Regulation (EU) 2018/1971 coming into force in 2018, several changes occurred.
Games without contentious content fall within the “General” category, and they do not require Singapore-specific rating labels.
To meet the requirements of the new statutes, telephone companies worked through the association to educate members, develop common policy positions and interface with policymakers in Congress and at the FCC.
also targeted around 50 other Russian banks and the Bank of Russia's System for Transfer of Financial Messages (SPFS).
States which are eligible to ratify the document but have not are the Cook Islands, Niue, and the State of Palestine.
AT&T wanted to offer workers in their top positions a pay raise of 0-2.7% over the contract period, while CWA negotiators wanted raises in the 20% range.
Expertise Emergency call centre (TECC): Telecommunication system that enables the use of IP-based communications in humanitarian emergency situations.
Interoute Communications Ltd was a privately held telecommunications company that operated large cloud service platforms in Europe.
The 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 (3GPP2) was a collaboration between telecommunications associations to make a globally applicable third generation (3G) mobile phone system specification within the scope of the ITU's IMT-2000 project.
In October 2009, the NGMN spectrum working group released “Next Generation Mobile Networks Spectrum Requirements Update”, containing the status and NGMN views and requirements on frequency bands identified at the ITU WRC-07.
Through periodic conferences ITERA seeks to obtain greater consistency in the development of its members' degree programs and the kinds of courses for educating future telecommunications leaders.
It is an attached agency of the Department of Information and Communications Technology responsible for the supervision, adjudication and control over all telecommunications services and radio and television networks throughout the country.
Busan, 2014) by the Member States of the International Telecommunication Union to create programs that encourage girls and young women to consider studies and careers in information and communication technologies.
Activities OMTP recommendations have hugely helped to standardise mobile operator terminal requirements, and its work has gone towards helping to defragment and deoptionalise operators' recommendations.
Recent work includes a series of standards on using machine learning in networking, such as Y.3172, Y.3173, Y.3176, and Y.3181.
Rain fade – the collective name for the negative effects of adverse weather conditions on transmission – is mostly a consequence of precipitation and moisture in the air.
The Electronic Frontier Foundation expressed concern at this, calling for a more transparent multi-stakeholder process.
observes the Basic Principles set forth in Article III a) of the Amended Convention referring to public service/universal service obligations, pan European coverage by the satellite system, non-discrimination and fair competition.
The ITU Youth Forum is a recurring event arranged to be a part of either regional or global ITU Telecom events.
The Telecommunications and Post Regulatory Authority (TPRA) is a government agency founded under the Telecommunications and Post Regulating Act, 2018.
5161; 113th Congress), a bill that would direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to allow manufacturers of electronic devices with a screen to display information required by the agency digitally on the screen rather than on a label affixed to the device.
It provides recommendations for relevant missions and users’ needs, which serve as guidelines to define the relevant R&D themes.
Extended wideband speech services – Profile Test Specification (PTS) and Test Case Library (TCL)" (PDF).
Key members of Congress who would normally be apprised of such a program and who would be expected to monitor its safeguards only learned of the program because we did".
Members The General Members of the body are: Banglalink Grameenphone Citycell Robi TeleTalk The associate members of the body are: Ericsson Huawei Nokia References External links Official website
Both attacks involved malware written to both issue unauthorized SWIFT messages and to conceal that the messages had been sent.
TBR21 is a European telecommunications standard published by ETSI, and is the standard to which all telephone equipment must adhere to, to be allowed connection to Europe's public switched telephone network.
ITU-R Recommendation BT.656, sometimes also called ITU656, is a simple digital video protocol for streaming uncompressed PAL or NTSC standard-definition television (625 or 525 lines) signals.
Much of the work on HiperLAN/2 has survived in the PHY specification for IEEE 802.11a, which is nearly identical to the PHY of HiperLAN/2.
The New York Times itself argued in a June 28, 2006 editorial that its reporting about the TFTP is protected by the First Amendment and serves a vital role, providing "information the public needs to make things right again".
Data Radio Channel (DARC) is a high-rate (16 kbit/s) standard for encoding data in a subcarrier over FM radio broadcasts.
IARC is one of two UN stations considered for such status, the other being 4U1UN at the Headquarters of the United Nations.
In the United States, marine communications and navigation are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission, U.S.
Hurricane Alicia increased the workload on the already overburdened managers, as telecommunications infrastructure repair people were among those participating in the strike.
legal and regulatory terminology, is a type of telecommunications company, commonly called a long-distance telephone company.
It is the North American Organizational Partner for the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), a member of and major U.S.
In September 2023, the company partnered with T-Mobile so customers could use both networks, providing expanded coverage including international.
The Consumer Affairs Department investigates these breaches by providing consumers multiple channels to approach them to submit disputes.
It features high-profile keynote speakers and panels on emerging technologies and market trends, as well as workshops and training sessions.
Transit connectivity IQ Group's Silk Route Transit is a terrestrial fibre-optic infrastructure IP-Transit project that provides an alternative route to connect Europe and the Middle East.
Few companies make an effort to be transparent about how they respond to government requests, or speak up for their users, even in relatively open political and media environments.
History CERIAS was rooted in COAST research group (Computer Operations, Audit, and Security Technology) established in 1991 in the Computer Sciences Department of Purdue out of research groups of professors Eugene Spafford and Samuel Wagstaff, Jr.
GEM defines profiles for different device classes (targets) – these define the set of available features of GEM for this device class.
As of 2024, the ITU Constitution and Convention has 194 state parties, which includes 193 United Nations member states plus the Holy See.
FOSA is affiliated with the Fiber Broadband Association (FBA), which promotes fiber-optic networking technology.
No matter what definitions are adopted in a given country, with some specific exceptions which are allowed for in the ITU RRs, the use of the spectrum must fit in with the international definitions of radio services.
This is largely limited to the major incumbent carriers, such as Bell Canada and Telus, for traditional landline service (but not Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)).
Despite the significant number countries not signing, the ITU came out with a press release: "New global telecoms treaty agreed in Dubai".
They also established PT Indosat Multimedia Mobile (IM3) to provide and operate a nationwide GPRS network, a first for the country.
Ownership In 1991, the laboratories became a part of Bell Northern Research (BNR), following the acquisition of STC by Northern Telecom, which later became Nortel.
Communities of Expertise Communities of Expertise (CoEs) are networks convened by GAID to bring together motivated and capable actors to address specific, well-defined ICTD problems in a results-oriented manner and to identify and disseminate good practices.
Alternatively, it may involve transfers of two securities in such a way as to ensure that delivery of one security occurs if and only if the corresponding delivery of the other security occurs.
Chairmen Gallery See also Bangladesh Public Service Commission Bangladesh Civil Service Bangladesh Road Transport Authority == References ==
Maintenance of NGN standards are now the responsibility of TC NTECH." References External links Official TISPAN web site An introduction to the TISPAN architecture
These include Mobile Network, Interconnection and FixeNetwork, BroadBand and Policy Analysis, Quality of Service, Broadcasting & Cable Services, Economic Regulation, Financial Analysis & IFA, Legal, Consumer Affairs & International Relation and Administration & Personnel.
PC4 is a block cipher specifically designed for DMR radio communication systems, using 253 rounds and a key size from 8 bits to 2112 bits.
The foundation began operating in 2005 and had two main programs - an education and outreach program, and a laureate program, which honours historically important figures in the field.
In October 2023, ETSI reported a data breach.Hackers stole a database containing information on ETSI's online users.
The ITU-T Study Group 13 (SG13) is a statutory group of the ITU Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) concerned with future networks and emerging network technologies, infrastructure and cloud computing, including the networking aspects of mobile telecommunications.
Carrier Ethernet helps guide work being done to support the specific, evolving and growing demands of Ethernet from carriers and service providers.
The ITU Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) is one of the three sectors (divisions or units) of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and is responsible for radio communications.
The union attempted to sanction workers who chose to cross the picket line by ostracizing them and levying fines.
Research projects associated with the potential effects of submarine cables on the seabed environment are also performed to ensure harmony with the marine environment.
BOCRA is responsible for regulating all matters related to telecommunications (wire, cellular, satellite and cable), postal services of Botswana.
Helium FreedomFi has partnered with the Helium network blockchain (ticker symbol "HNT") to expand its coverage; HNT is awarded as an incentive.
Standards ASN.1 X.500 X.509 X.800 X.1035 X.1205 X.1277 X.1280 RM-ODP OSI model Trustworthy AI Together with other ITU-T Study Groups and AI for Good, the study group has been developing technology specifications under Trustworthy AI.
The Cross-border Interbank Payment System (CIPS) is a Chinese payment system that offers clearing and settlement services for its participants in cross-border renminbi (RMB) payments and trade.
Zero-knowledge proof Previous pre-standardization work on the topic of zero-knowledge proof has been conducted in the ITU-T Focus Group on Digital Ledger Technologies.
In 1982 there was a step-change in types of BT phones entering the market, and technology used for connecting phones, and the BABT was needed with a greater variety of phones than was previously available: BT was about to lose its monopoly on supplying phones.
Snow, responded by arguing that there is a vast difference between stating general intentions to track terrorist finances and actually revealing the exact means employed to do so.
Certification: The Continua Health Alliance provides a certification program for products that adhere to the Continua Design Guidelines, ensuring that they meet the required standards for interoperability, security, and ease of use.
Some Mobile Network Operators may require further certification before a device is allowed to be placed on a network.
Standard + The Standard + Plus BGAN service introduced by Inmarsat in May 2017 provides unlimited Internet use for a low fixed monthly price using consumer-grade routing.
One of MMF's main objectives is to provide funds to key research projects concerning health and mobile phones, as well as to cooperate on standards and regulatory issues.
Most older (pre-2010) terminals don't cover the Region 1 amateur radio frequency range (430–440) natively, and must be modified via software with a possible impact on RF performance.
Most of the call is carried over IP network, where cost of carrying of the audio signal is cheaper than traditional phone carriers.
Applications DECT NR+ (called DECT-2020 NR in ETSI) primarily focuses on addressing the needs of local area deployments for two use case areas: massive Machine Type Communication (mMTC) and Ultra-Reliable Low Latency Communication (URLLC) as defined for 5G networks application areas.
Addressing issues related to access network transport, such as digital subscriber lines (DSL), gigabit-capable passive optical networks (GPON), and Ethernet passive optical networks (EPON).
Depending on the device, location, and intended use, regulations may be imposed either restricting or explicitly specifying authorised frequency bands.
Its primary objective is to promote the development of high quality, efficient, reliable and affordable communications services in Ethiopia.
The United States Telecom Association (USTelecom) is an organization that represents telecommunications-related businesses based in the United States.
It addresses systems where a satellite broadcast directly to mobile and handheld receivers in L band or S band and is complemented by terrestrial transmitters.
Collaborations The ITU-APT Foundation of India collaborates with key national and international stakeholders in the telecommunications sector.
History BOCRA was established in 2013 to replace Botswana Telecommunications Authority by the Government of Botswana Parliament when the Telecommunications Act of 1996 was amended and revised to create the Communications Regulatory Authority.
In September 2006, the Belgian government declared that these SWIFT dealings with American governmental authorities were a breach of Belgian and European privacy laws.
GSS 16 The third Global Standards Symposium (GSS 16) was held on 24 October 2016 in Hammamet, Tunisia.
Translation Memory eXchange (TMX) is an XML specification for the exchange of translation memory (TM) data between computer-aided translation and localization tools with little or no loss of critical data.
Vision A world-class communications regulator that facilitates innovative, reliable, and sustainable communication solutions to meet stakeholders’ expectations.
References External links Creonic Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine ETSI ETSI Publications Download Area Don’t trust satellite phones – The GMR-1 and GMR-2 ciphers have been broken Archived 2012-02-05 at the Wayback Machine
At the time that the legislation was considered by the states, the explanatory note mentioned: ""...it is deliberately intended that the JCRA is, and is seen to be, independent from the States in its licensing and regulatory roles.
Created in 1992, its secretariat is the Bureau de développement des télécommunications (BDT), known in English as the Telecommunication Development Bureau.
In October 2020, the NGMN Alliance and the O-RAN Alliance signed a cooperation agreement,cooperating in the area of Radio Access Network decomposition of 4G and 5G networks.
Clubs that host TEB Clubnights include Institut fuer Zukunft in Leipzig, PAL in Hamburg, Blitz Club in Munich, White Noise in Stuttgart, Gewölbe in Cologne, Klub Neu in Dresden, Galerie Kurzweil in Darmstadt, Studio Club in Essen, Oma Doris in Dortmund among others.
In addition, Eurescom runs its own Eurescom Study Programme Archived 2007-09-27 at the Wayback Machine, in which European network operators collaborate on exploring future telecommunications technologies.
In September 2015, the company raised a $6 million Series A investment led by Chamath Palihapitiya's firm Social Capital.
In 1986 M/A-COM, sold the Cable Home Group to General Instrument Corporation, and CommScope became a division of General Instrument.
Mission According to the United Nations press release, the organization's mission is to facilitate and promote integration by providing a platform for an open, inclusive, multi-stakeholder cross-sectoral policy dialogue on the role of information and communication technology in development.
This may be possible in many cases such as in a central depository system such as the United States Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation.
The OpApp also offers HD+ viewers an 'instant restart' function, direct access to catch-up TV services and an interactive, customisable programme guide.
Additionally, many of the brightest researchers and scientists in Africa are leaving the continent to pursue intellectual and trade development in other countries of the world, because the opportunities for professional development in Africa are limited.
In October 2014, eight Venezuelans were arrested shortly after the death of PSUV official Robert Serra.
Market & SatCom Solutions Working Group aims at identifying the positioning of future SatCom solutions in three domains: Security, Broadband for All, and Future Internet.
The acquisition, which included CommScope trademark and logo rights, was completed on January 12, 2026.
Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (DECT); New Generation DECT; Overview and Requirements" (PDF).
WIA argued in support of the FCC in the case, arguing that local delays in approval of broadband projects are a national problem.
The theme of GSS-20 was "International standards to enable the digital transformation and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)".
HAKOM is governed by its council, which includes five members, who are all appointed for five-year terms by the Croatian Parliament.
From this the device is able to request one or more service offerings and receive a list of services with technical details of how to access specific service instances over various delivery networks.
(formerly Centro Studi e Laboratori Telecomunicazioni S.p.A.; CSELT) is an Italian research center for telecommunication based in Turin, the biggest in Italy and one of the most important in Europe.
The CRTC also added that Bell would be required to offer to wholesale ISPs the same usage insurance plan it sells to retail customers.
In order to improve the responsiveness of international banking, a method of cover payments was developed.
Information and Consumer Affairs Unit The Information and consumer affairs unit (ICAU) oversees all information matters with the aim of increasing public awareness and protecting consumer interests while promoting transparency.
History The ITU is one of the oldest international organizations still in operation, second only to the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine, which predates it by fifty years.
In its present form, HAKOM was established in 2008 after the merger of two earlier regulatory agencies, the Croatian Telecommunications Agency (HAT) and the Postal Services Council (VPU).
Boundaries Region 1 comprises Europe, Africa, the Commonwealth of Independent States, Mongolia, and the Middle East west of the Persian Gulf, including Iraq.
In 2025, the IXP deployed a new anycast root name server M-Root instance, becoming one of the few IXPs to host multiple root server instances (D‑Root, E‑Root, F‑Root, K‑Root, L‑Root and M‑Root).
History Officially launched in December 2004, its existing founder members are Gradwell Dotcom Ltd, Magrathea Telecommunications Limited, Telappliant, Timico Ltd, Voicenet Solutions Ltd, Voipfone and XConnect and corporate members such as BT and Gamma.
The ULE technology is promoted by the ULE Alliance, a non-profit organization, located in Bern, Switzerland.
The elected Director of the Bureau is Mario Maniewicz; he was first elected by the ITU membership to the directorship in 2018.
The Partner2Connect (P2C) Digital Coalition is a United Nations multi-Agency joint programme of work, between the International Telecommunication Union, United Nations Tech Envoy, and UN High Representative for LMICs to connect all of the world's population to the internet.
One advantage of BGAN terminals is their low power usage (4 watts idle to 22 watts burst transmitting), much less than satellite dish systems that use 90 to 150 watts when idle or transmitting.
World Telecommunication and Information Society Day is an international day proclaimed in November 2006 by the International Telecommunication Union Plenipotentiary Conference in Antalya, Turkey, to be celebrated annually on 17 May.
DVB-C2 allows bit rates up to 83.1 Mbit/s on an 8 MHz channel bandwidth when using 4096-QAM modulation; future extensions will allow up to 97 Mbit/s and 110.8 Mbit/s per channel using 16384-QAM and 65536-AQAM modulation.
Studies Seizo Onoe holds Master’s and Bachelor's degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Kyoto University (Graduate School of Engineering).
Since its incarnation, BABT has established itself as a Notified Body in Europe and has a number of appointments such as the IMEI allocation authority for GSM terminals under appointment from the GSM Association.
In assist of this, MCIT focused on developing ICT talent levels, both to empower more people through access to the information society and to make certain a regular supply of human resources with the ICT capabilities required within the ICT zone and somewhere else.
Association of Mobile Telecom Operators of Bangladesh (AMTOB), is a national trade organization representing all mobile telecom operators in Bangladesh.
ASN.1 and X.509, it was also the parent body of the Focus Group on Quantum Information Technology (FG-QIT).
As the nerve center of IMPACT, the GRC is fully equipped with a crisis room, IT and communications facilities, a fully functional Security Operations Centre (SOC), a well-equipped data center, an on-site broadcasting center and a VIP viewing gallery.
Experts agree that APT 38 was formed following the March 2013 sanctions and the first known operations connected to this group occurred in February 2014.
By total revenue Note: Numbers of total revenues of most telephone operating companies are sourced from Forbes or MarketScreener.
Oftel was accused by critics such as Freeserve of having been "captured" by BT, and of giving the dominant operator too much freedom to leverage its monopoly status in fixed line telephony into other markets such as ADSL.
When the voting procedure is finished and a document has received a majority of votes in favour, the document is considered to be officially adopted by BEREC.
41 pages External links "ETSI EN 300 751 V1.2.1 (2003-01) DAta Radio Channel (DARC); System for wireless infotainment forwarding and teledistribution" (PDF, 495 KiB).
The future of Europe and the world is at stake." He proposed immediate "destructive sanctions" against Russia, including exclusion from the SWIFT banking system, complete isolation of Russia in all formats, the provision of weapons, equipment and humanitarian aid provision.
546, the TCB and the BOC were integrated into a single entity now known as the National Telecommunications Commission.
HiperMAN is a European alternative to WiMAX (or the IEEE 802.16 standard) and the Korean technology WiBro.
NTA published a Cross Holding Study report that suggested all telecom companies in Nepal to go public limited company (PLC).
Soon after its formation the institute began to publish journals and host paper presentations showcasing the latest developments in the field.
If the document is perceived to be long and complicated, a plain English summary is usually published as well.
The eighteenth Plenipotentiary Conference (Guadalajara 2010) witnessed the second consecutive UAE election to membership in the ITU Council.
In 1942 the staffing level was about 2000 people; by 1945 increased electronics production had increased this number to around 3500 staff.
From 1998-2000 the consortium consisted of a Technical Architecture Board that met frequently, with work being conducted in several working groups.
video coding, audio coding and image coding methods, such as H.264, H.265, H.266, and JPEG, as well as other types of multimedia related standards such as F.780.2, H.810, and H.870 on safe listening, together with the World Health Organization.
Success with the new equipment led to mounting the equipment onto Vickers Wellingtons and Sunderland flying boats, the early metric-wavelength ASV-equipped types carrying an array of transmitting and receiving "Stickleback" aerials on the rear fuselage top and sides and under the wings.
Lucy Woods presided over ITP for fifteen years, until 2018, when the organization named Kevin Paige chairman for five years.
MT940 is a specific SWIFT message type used by the SWIFT network to send and receive end-of-day bank account statements.
That same year during Popkomm there are also three event nights featuring Rammstein, Virginia Jetzt!, Phillip Boa, Tiefschwarz and Mocky among others in the former Palace of the Republic.
The virtual appliance applications are delivered as packaged operating system virtual machine (VM) images or containers incorporating operating systems and applications.
History The company Ukrainian Mobile Communications (UMC) introduced mobile services in Ukraine, Sotel initially using the analog NMT standard, then using GSM-900 and 1800.
mLearning kit: The kit consists of Android tablets, a low-consumption server of digital educational content (Raspberry Pi), a laptop and a Wi-Fi router to share the connection and create the network.
Academic programs The School of Computing and Information offers bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degree programs that are provided by three departments: Computer Science, Informatics and Networked Systems, and Information Culture and Data Stewardship.
See also List of telecommunications regulatory bodies List of Operators in Botswana Commonwealth Telecommunications Organisation References External links Official website
All this is achieved with a minimum number of options to simplify implementation and interoperability.
A key subsystem is based on the architectures of 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS).
Sometimes they are even called "PIC codes", though this term is inaccurate, since the code is being used to avoid the PIC, not to use its services.
Until April 2021, it was originally known as the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA; Arabic: هيئة تنظيم الاتصالات, romanized: Hay'ahtu Tanzeem al-Etisalat).
ECTF (the Enterprise Computer Telephony Forum) was formed in 1995 by telephony equipment and software suppliers to improve the interoperability of various vendors’ CT solutions.
On April 4, 2019, CommScope completed the acquisition of Arris International, a telecommunications equipment manufacturing company and owner of Ruckus Networks.
Sogetel TBayTel Tuckersmith Communications Wightman Telecom WTC Communications See also Stentor Alliance Public utilities commission List of Canadian telephone companies List of Canadian mobile phone companies List of telecommunications regulatory bodies References External links Website
By 2022, International Telecommunication Union data showed that more than 3,62,000 girls and young women have celebrated more than 11,000 celebrations in 171 countries worldwide during the International Girls in ICT Day.
The adoption of the ITRs in 1988 is often taken as the start of the wider liberalization process in international telecommunications, though a few countries, including United States and United Kingdom, had made steps to liberalize their markets before 1988.
Calls made on telephone circuits within the local geographic area covered by one local network are handled only by that intraLATA carrier, commonly called a local telephone exchange carrier.
Framework The Coalition's Framework of Action centers on pledges by public and private sector entities.
Bonding channels increases the number UHDTV services within the bonded channel, allowing statistical multiplexing to work more efficiently.
2003–2009 Indosat was granted a 3G network license and introduced a 3.5G service in Jakarta and Surabaya.
A MT103 message is considered a "Single Customer Credit Transfer" and is used to instruct a funds transfer.
The building is home to the Nesbitt Room which houses several special collections on the history of children and children's books and media, rare editions of children's books, and some unique furnishings and artifacts.
How ASiC is used One of the purposes of an electronic signature is to secure the data that it is attached to it from being modified.
In particular, OMA specifications for a given function are the same with either GSM, UMTS, or CDMA2000 networks.
For a star such as the Sun, with luminosity 3.85×1026 W and mass 1.99×1030 kg, the total thrust produced by reflecting half of the solar output would be 1.28×1018 N.
In 1996, he submitted a longer paper, in which he claimed to have observed a larger effect (2% weight reduction as opposed to 0.3% in the 1992 paper) to the Journal of Physics D.
Rather than using RF, it would have used optical communications using laser beams for their higher data rates.
The review began with an out-of-context quote from William Edmondson's essay on how mysterious stone carvings "might have been made by aliens" as a metaphor for the difficulties in researching long-lost ancient societies.
The viaduct was "substantially complete" in June 1835 from various accounts of horse-drawn cars passing over it during that time.
Vakoch described the humanities perspective on extraterrestrial communication as increasingly "skeptical and critical", but "a criticism that engages, as opposed to a criticism that dismisses".
Office mind games are often hard to identify clearly, as strong management blurs with over-direction, and healthy rivalry with manipulative head games and sabotage.
It was held October 20–21, 2006, at the Las Cruces International Airport at the Wirefly X PRIZE Cup.
After being lowered for the final time, the car was coated in a cosmoline like substance and was then wrapped in layers of sealed plastic.
As the novel progresses, the protagonist becomes involved in investigating and then protecting a strange company employee named Choi Gangwu, a shy man interested in butterflies who oddly also has peculiarly advanced knowledge of the company and a passion for the space elevator.
From the beginning, Bessler's work generated accusations of fraud from various people, including mining engineer Johann Gottfried Borlach, mathematician Christian Wagner, model-maker Andreas Gärtner, Kassel court tutor Jean-Pierre de Crousaz, and others.
Not only does this keep the projectile in phase, but also, providing its motors have enough power, allows the machine to operate in a rapid-fire mode, launching a projectile as often as once per revolution.
A Tipler cylinder, also called a Tipler time machine, is a hypothetical object theorized to be a potential mode of time travel—although results have shown that a Tipler cylinder could only allow time travel if its length were infinite or with the existence of negative energy.
The hotel’s switchboard operator reported having connected a call from room 1018A to a number listed as belonging to Dr.
In 2012, a time capsule dating from 15 July 1979 was found in Vulkanny (Yelizovsky District, Kamchatka peninsula) under a statue of Lenin.
When the velocity of the string exceeds 10 km/sec, centrifugal forces detach the (flexible and extensible) string from Earth's surface and lift the ring into space.
Asimov used the Encyclopedia Galactica as a literary device throughout his Foundation series, beginning many of the book sections or chapters with a short extract from the Encyclopedia as epigraphs, discussing a key character or event in the story.
In 1962, physicist Richard Feynman discussed a Brownian ratchet that would supposedly extract meaningful work from Brownian motion, although he went on to demonstrate how such a device would fail to work in practice.
A difference in the mission architecture between Longshot and the Daedalus study is that Longshot would go into orbit about the target star, while the higher-speed Daedalus would do a one shot fly-by lasting a comparatively short time.
It was opened by specialists in a media event in the American gallery of the museum on January 6, 2015.
Hypothetical technologies are technologies that do not exist yet, but that could exist in the future.
Photon momentum would be translated to the spacecraft, and reflectors enable a theoretical twofold increase in momentum transfer compared to a blackbody surface.
Proposals also exist for a fixed link from Rügen to southern Sweden, linking Berlin and the Øresund region.
The idea is that the wave function of a positron moving in the gravitational field of a matter particle evolves such that in time it becomes more probable to find the positron further away from the matter particle.
It consisted of a bronze statue of Davis by Richmond sculptor Edward Valentine surrounded by a colonnade of 13 columns representing the Southern states, and a tall Doric column topped by a bronze statue, also by Valentine, representing Southern womanhood.
He launched Infinite Energy to serve as a platform for the continued exploration of LENR, alternative energy technologies, and unconventional scientific ideas that struggled to find a place in mainstream journals.
Contents At 11:20 pm on December 31, 2000, Mayor Archer opened the copper "century box" before a ceremony of Detroiters and read a handwritten letter that Mayor Maybury wrote a century earlier.
The certificates, double-sided and printed on hand-made paper (also made from the original trees felled for the project), depict a cross section of a tree with 100 tree-rings symbolising the time period for the project.
Description The content of the Arecibo message was designed by a group of Cornell University and Arecibo scientists: Frank Drake, formulator of the Drake equation, James C.
Podkletnov is reported to have visited the Sheffield team in 2000 and advised them on the conditions necessary to achieve his effect, conditions that they never achieved.
In the Known Space universe, constructed by Larry Niven, Earth uses constant acceleration drives in the form of Bussard ramjets to help colonize the nearest planetary systems.
However, these may be temporary and related to correct placement and calibration of the stimulator and so are potentially reversible.
The term was coined in 1969 by architect Paolo Soleri as a portmanteau of "architecture" and "ecology." Soleri believed that a completed arcology would provide space for a variety of residential, commercial, and agricultural facilities while minimizing individual human environmental impact.
Kennedy, Edwards sorted through industries and product lines, and focused on passenger railroads, which had lost their former popularity due to the speed of airplanes and the convenience of automobiles.
Critical reception The Future Library project has been generally met with interest and intrigue by the media, though it has attracted criticism from some for its emphasis on preventing readership between 2014 and 2114.
That prisoners instead of being conveyed to the several police stations in Automobile patrol wagons will be sent through pneumatic tubes, flying machines, or some similar process.
Today, Dyson's Astrochicken resonates with several theories of how space exploration might proceed in the future.
Foster noted that he had purchased a 1957 Plymouth Savoy as a donor car to replace needed parts to keep Miss Belvedere from further deterioration, and the initial offer was a promotional stunt for his business.
Antimatter's rarity and tendency to annihilate when brought into contact with matter makes its study a technically demanding task.
By the law of reflection, the forces acting on them will always be normal to the sheet surface; the sheets must therefore be tilted during navigation, which poses structure and control challenges, and reduces the power reaching the sail.
In other words, there is a substitution of motivation factors of the enemy in order to encourage him to take disadvantageous decisions.
Others were forced to swallow spoons of excrement, and when they threw it back up, they were forced to eat their own vomit.
The American religious leader Thomas Lake Harris (1823–1906) mentioned city-planets in his verses, and science fiction author Isaac Asimov used the city-planet Trantor as the setting of some of his Foundation novels.
The tether-to-payload mass ratio of a space tether would be around 1:1 at a tip velocity 60% of its characteristic velocity but becomes more than 1000:1 at a tip velocity 240% of its characteristic velocity.
After the Public Availability Date the public may also obtain copies of the record in question through the library.
Unveiled in 1967, the monument functions as a geodetic survey marker and has a time capsule that is slated to be opened in 2067.
In other words, the signal should have maximum openness, which is understood here as an antonym of the term security.
The KickStarter project comments thread has many comments from backers asking what has happened with no response.
Although the ethics of it are not discussed much, the significant concerns presented by this sort of technology, such as blending of the minds of connected individuals or trading thereof, and forced invasive interfacing are brought up and form part of the core narrative.
X-ray pioneer In January 1896, the first mention of Wilhelm Röntgen’s discovery reached Western Australia via news from London in the local press.
DARPA's technical name for the Crusher is Unmanned Ground Combat Vehicle and Perceptor Integration System, and the whole project is known by the acronym UPI, which stands for Unmanned Ground Combat Vehicle PerceptOR Integration.
The height of the cone's apex above the disk would vary directly with the height of the shielding disk above the Earth.
It was at the intersection of Carrollton Avenue and Esplanade Avenue at the main entrance to City Park, on Beauregard Circle.
As such, unless they actively strove to create it the reader would be punished if such a thing were to ever happen.
In November 2024, Kishiro stated on his personal blog that Mars Chronicle is set to end with its 56th chapter and that the story will continue with a new series in 2025; the final chapter was published on 11 March 2025.
In accordance with Kant (and contrary to what Aristotle thought) Karl Marx, Alfred Whitehead, Jaques Derrida and Juan David García Bacca noticed that nature is incapable of reproducing tables; or airplanes, or submarines, or computers.
Marsden, Ilya Prigogine (Nobel Prize in Chemistry, 1977), Robert Wald, John Archibald Wheeler, Maurice Allais (Nobel Prize in Economics, 1988), and Frank Wilczek (Nobel Prize in Physics, 2004).
By a special arrangement of the attracting and repelling poles, a rotational movement of the rotor is supposedly permanently maintained.
Memorial of Sorrow – Episode 11 – The Pitești Experiment (in Romanian) The Pitești phenomenon (in Romanian) "Genocidul sufletelor.
The spacecraft must flip its orientation halfway through the journey and decelerate the rest of the way, if it is required to rendezvous with its destination (as opposed to a flyby).
End of September 1950, Sucigan came back from Bucharest carrying the order to start the unmasking process.
The Level 2 power beaming prize, for a 5 metres per second (16 ft/s) climb, remains available for future competitions.
The NSA provided CIA and FBI officials with reports of intercepted international communications by certain individuals in these movements.
Beliefs Methernitha is a Christian group, but it is non-evangelical, refraining from attempts to win new converts.
KEO is the name of a proposed space time capsule which was to have been launched in 2003 carrying messages from the citizens of present Earth to humanity 50,000 years from now, when it would re-enter Earth's atmosphere.
The Letter to the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor of Sydney is a handwritten open letter written in November 1986 by Queen Elizabeth II during her visit to the Queen Victoria Building in Sydney, Australia.
American comedy musician "Weird Al" Yankovic referenced the concept in his 2014 song Foil, a parody of the song Royals by Lorde.
In October, the city council and mayor formed a committee to investigate the feasibility of removing the offensive plaque and moving the monument to Santa Fe National Cemetery.
When the viaduct was double tracked in 1860, the inside rails were placed directly over the longitudinal walls and the outside rails were supported by the deck arches.
After launch, the satellite was named KUKAI, and consisted of two subsatellites, "Ku" and "Kai," to be linked by a 5-meter (16 ft) tether.
This system also doesn't require additional heat or radiation shielding to protect the rest of the space craft which make the system (not including fuel compartment) light in comparison to other designs.
The proposed engine is mainly intended to be used to maintain the orbit of satellite stations during long periods of time without the need of refueling.
While according to the special theory of relativity, faster-than-light travel is impossible, drives like a warp drive or using a wormhole, that is in principle similar have been hypothesized.
Capabilities The robot can travel over rough terrain, such as vertical walls more than 4 feet (1.2 m) high, wooded slopes, and rocky creekbeds.
The legal singularity is based on the idea that as AI systems become more advanced, they will be capable of processing and analyzing vast amounts of legal data and case law more quickly and accurately than humans.
To commemorate 70th anniversary of Indonesian independence, a time capsule was buried in a square of Merauke town, Merauke Regency, South Papua in 2015, near Mopah International Airport.
Relativistic: Ships that function by taking advantage of time dilation at close-to-light-speeds, so long trips will seem much shorter (but still take the same amount of time for outside observers).
Although there is no evidence that mind control using microwaves exists, rumors of continued classified research fuel the worries of people who believe they are being targeted.
While the cross is usually lit in white, the LED system allows it to be any colour, including the purple traditionally used between the death and election of a new Pope.
Super High Altitude Research Project (1985-95) The US Ballistic Missile Defense program sponsored the Super High Altitude Research Project (SHARP) in the 1980s.
Elevators Cable-free elevators using EMP, capable of moving both vertically and horizontally, have been developed by German engineering firm Thyssen Krupp for use in high rise, high density buildings.
In line with J-Novel Club's light novel releases, new instalments are first serialized on J-Novel Club's website over a number of weeks for subscribers.
At this point, Trek parted ways with the submarine analogy (subs don't "surface" to launch torpedoes), instead anticipating a significant limitation of Stealth technology: aircraft like the B-2 bomber cannot avoid becoming un-stealthy during the time their bomb bay doors are open.
There is a report that he later returned to Tampere to work on superconductors at Tamglass Engineering Oy.
"Microwave induced acoustic effects in mammalian auditory systems and physical materials", Annals of New York Academy of Sciences, 247:194–218, 1975.
In 2008, Time magazine coined Nylonkong to link New York City, London, and Hong Kong as the eperopolis of the Americas, Euro-Africa and Asia-Pacific respectively.
A gravity train is a theoretical means of transportation for purposes of commuting between two points on the surface of a sphere, by following a straight tunnel connecting the two points through the interior of the sphere.
According to Russell and Norvig, "as long as the program works, they don't care if you call it real or a simulation." If the program can behave as if it has a mind, then there is no need to know if it actually has a mind – indeed, there would be no way to tell.
by AE van Vogt The interplanetary sleeper ship USSC Discovery One is one of the main subjects of the whole Space Odyssey franchise.
Instead of a vast individual mirror, hundreds of low cost reflectors could in theory be synchronized to concentrate solar irradiance and aim it at a target.
Project Cyclops is and was one of the first looks at the theoretical framework of what it would take to create such a device.
And what was terrifying was not that they would kill you for thinking otherwise, but that they might be right.
An array of contemporary scientific instruments were gathered for the crypt such as an altimeter and a barometer, as well as common appliances like a telephone and a television.
See also Pan-American Highway Trans-Asian Railway Transcontinental railroad Intercontinental and transoceanic fixed links Footnotes References Gilpin, William (1890).
In her theory, if a large number of ions could be aligned (in a Bose–Einstein condensate), the resulting effect would be a very strong gravitomagnetic field producing a strong repulsive force.
The overhead introduced by full modeling of the biological, chemical, and physical details of neural behaviour (especially on a molecular scale) would require computational powers several orders of magnitude larger than Kurzweil's estimate.
Space fountain - very tall structures using fast moving masses to hold it up Space tether - methods using long boluses References Further reading Bly, Robert W.
Life and times In 1864, Hancock was born at Dublin, Ireland the son of William John Hancock, an actuary, and Annette Dickson née Bowdler.
On January 17, 2022 IAVI and Moderna launched a phase I trial of a HIV vaccine with mRNA technology.
The concept is depicted in the video game Stellaris, where players are given the option of transforming planets into ecumenopolises.
In 1979, Joseph Westley Newman applied for a patent on a direct current electrical motor which, according to his book The Energy Machine of Joseph Newman did more mechanical work than could be accounted for by the electrical power supplied to it.
Author Bain writes, "[Jones] would be a messenger for the agency in conjunction with her normal business trips." Again with the USO, Jones visited South Vietnam in 1970; she later suspected her visit had some connection to a disastrous attempt to free American prisoners of war from North Vietnam.
"If civilization should fall, things could get eerie and interesting." An Alderson disk (the Godwheel) was a prominent feature of Malibu Comics' Ultraverse.
actually works this time" and GameSpot added that both "single-player and multiplayer options have been improved in Civ IV." Though it had received mostly positive feedback, video game critics pointed out functions in the game which could have been improved to enhance their enjoyment of the game.
The primary coil assembly consists of phase windings surrounded by steel laminations, and includes a thermal sensor within a thermal epoxy.
Moreover, the organizers were committed to not filtering the messages, stating "all the messages received, without undergoing any censorship, will be embarked aboard KEO." The launch has been delayed several times due to major geopolitical shakeups, including 9/11 and the restructuring of the ESA.
However, the formidable expense and difficulty of building such a bridge, and of building thousands of miles of new railroad through remote portions of Siberia, far northern North America, Africa, and other areas, have kept the plan as nothing more than a vision.
The document also proposed a bridge to Asia across the Bering Strait, a concept that has been dubbed the Intercontinental Peace Bridge, which would have been, and still would be, an enormously important link between the Eurasia-Africa and the Americas.
The project aims to analyze and assess past beamed-powered concepts, describe the construction of sail designs, and provide a starsail system concept.
Orbital ring An orbital ring is a concept for a giant artificially constructed ring hanging at low Earth orbit that would rotate at slightly above orbital speed that would have fixed tethers hanging down to the ground.
This view is not universally accepted, and it is not agreed with by those who are against the transmission of interstellar radio messages, but at the same time are not against SETI searching.
See also Dyson bubble List of hypothetical technologies Solar mirror Space sunshade == References ==
Olson explained Stubbs's presence, saying "They're afraid I might hurt you." Olson informed his wife that he had agreed to undergo psychiatric treatment.
The sun gun or heliobeam (German: Sonnengewehr) is a theoretical orbital weapon, which makes use of a concave mirror mounted on a satellite, to concentrate sunlight onto a small area at the Earth's surface, destroying targets or killing through heat and burning.
They concluded, "Our measurements refute all EmDrive claims by at least 3 orders of magnitude." History and controversy Rocket engines operate by expelling propellant, which acts as a reaction mass and which produces thrust per Newton's third law of motion.
Depending on the mission objectives and altitude, spaceflight using this form of spacecraft propulsion is theorized to be significantly less expensive than spaceflight using rocket engines.
The former refers to the more science-fictionish tools of more directly seizing control over affected individuals.
For instance, this is expressed in many feminists' discomfort concerning postmodern theories' challenge to traditional binary oppositions, perceiving it as a subversion of women's attempt to define their own subjecthood.
For example, whether it should include people with severe dementia, patients in a vegetative state, foetuses, or embryos.
Active Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (Active SETI) Vakoch argues that in order to make contact, humankind may need to take the initiative in transmitting, a project called active SETI.
Patents that have been held invalid for incredible utility include: an invention asserted to change the taste of food using a magnetic field (Fregeau v.
In the Revelation Space series by Alastair Reynolds, interstellar commerce depends upon "lighthugger" starships which can accelerate indefinitely at 1 g, with superseded antimatter powered constant acceleration drives.
Bracewell in 1960, a Bracewell probe is defined as a hypothetical autonomous interstellar space probe designed for communication with alien civilizations.
Intended mainly as a scientific probe, the design criteria specified that the spacecraft had to use existing or near-future technology and had to be able to reach its destination within a human lifetime.
Ceramics behave well in compressive loading situations where brittle fracture is minimized, and would provide greater operating efficiency through higher operating temperatures and lighter engine weight when compared to the metal alloys that typically are used in turbomachinery components.
January 2006 LiftPort successfully launched an observation and communication platform a mile in the air and maintained it in a stationary position for more than six hours while robotic lifters climbed up and down a ribbon attached to the platform.
World ship proposal The 2012 paper World Ships – Architectures & Feasibility Revisited proposed a generation ship (also called a world ship) based on the Stanford torus.
Vast tracts of land would have been freed for agriculture, including the Sahara, which was to be irrigated with the help of three sea-sized manmade lakes in Africa.
Underfed and exposed to a new ecology, enslaved people then had to battle the new climate and forced hard labor.
April 29, 2005 Announced plans for a carbon nanotube manufacturing plant, the company's first formal facility for production of the material on a commercial scale.
Larger obstacles that might be encountered while passing through the target system would be dispersed by an artificially generated cloud of particles, ejected by support vehicles called dust bugs about 200 km ahead of the vehicle.
Men further stated that Chinese authorities did not permit Li to return to China to attend her mother's funeral.
Hutch brings space-time capsule project to India The Hindu Business Line ChennaiOnline.com (4 September 2002).
Some retrospectives were the advantages and potential of solar sails, but the need for them to be more advanced for a mission, and also the utility of a radioisotope propulsion (REP) for such a mission.
The design requires fusion power technology beyond current capabilities, and much larger and more complex rockets.
This was enabled in part by advances in material design and fabrication (particularly of gratings), and optoelectronic control.
History Starlight is a program of the Experimental Cosmology Group of University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB), and has received funding from NASA.
The tip of the tether moves in approximately a cycloid, in which it is momentarily stationary with respect to the ground.
So, for example, the thought experiment of a Brownian ratchet as a perpetual motion machine was first discussed by Gabriel Lippmann in 1900 but it was not until 1912 that Marian Smoluchowski gave an adequate explanation for why it cannot work.
Description Project Artichoke was a mind control program that gathered information together with the intelligence divisions of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and FBI.
The Casimir effect was investigated experimentally and analytically under the Breakthrough Propulsion Physics project.
Before the installation of the fibre-optic lighting, the purple illumination was accomplished by changing all the light bulbs.
APA (RICO lawsuit) When the APA's BSERP declined to accept the DIMPAC findings, Singer sued the APA and other scholars in 1992 for "defamation, frauds, aiding and abetting and conspiracy" under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and lost in 1994.
In 2009 at Edwards Air Force Base, the challenge was climbing a 900 m tether, and one entry managed the feat several times, with a top speed of 3.5 m/s.
Current diffractive sail designs use thin metamaterial films, containing micrometer-size gratings based on polarization or subwavelength refractive structures, causing light to spread out (i.e.
This portrayal highlights the existential threat of relativistic warfare, where the sheer energy of kinetic strikes renders planetary defenses nearly obsolete.
These ships would necessarily be self-sustaining and self-maintaining for possibly thousands of years.
The post-revolutionary individual would wander from one leisure environment to another in search of new sensations.
At the end of the entire 260s burn, the second stage would be at 142 mi (229 km) in altitude and 584 mi (940 km) downrange.
Japan The Expo '70 time capsule is located near Osaka Castle, donated by Panasonic and the Mainichi Newspapers.
Humans might react violently to the growing power of emulations, especially if it reduces human wages.
The equations do not specify any particular value for the speed of light, which is an experimentally determined quantity for a fixed unit of length.
Historians suggest that items which describe the daily lives of the people who created them, such as personal notes, pictures, videos and documents, would greatly increase the value of the time capsule to future historians.
Die Glocke and other alleged Nazi "miracle weapons" have been dramatized in video games, television shows, and novels.
Advances in consumer electronics have made possible transmitters that simultaneously transmit many narrow beams, covering the million or so nearest stars but not the spaces between.
A preliminary mission outline suggests the use of solar sails propelled by high energy lasers to increase propulsion.
See also In-situ resource utilization References External links A Thought Experiment: Mining Gas Giants for Helium-3 Crowlspace | Outer Planet Mining
Feasibility and science-based speculation Although Dyson sphere systems are theoretically possible, building a stable megastructure around the Sun is currently far beyond humanity's engineering capacity.
Stellar engines are a class of hypothetical megastructures which use the resources of a star to generate available work (also called exergy).
In contrast to the images included on the Voyager Golden Record that emphasized the positive aspects of life on Earth, Vakoch proposes that we should be honest about human frailties.
This happens because the fuel must be accelerated to the spaceship's velocity before its energy can be extracted, and that will cut the fuel efficiency dramatically.
The NEXUS reusable rocket was a concept design created in the 1960s by a group at General Dynamics led by Krafft Arnold Ehricke.
The Tree of Thorns is described as an unimaginably large, metallic tree, alive with the agonized writhing of countless human victims of all ages and races.
This is thus a resolution to the Fermi paradox – that is, the question of why we have not already encountered extraterrestrial intelligence if it is common throughout the universe.
Rak Mesba is a partial ancient alien Alderson Disk in Orion's Arm, a multi-authored online science fiction world-building project.
They are also subject to severe imbalance (or vibrations) that could wipe out the whole rotor stage, are prone to high- and low-cycle fatigue, and subject to catastrophic failure due to disc bursts from high tensile loads, consequently requiring heavy containment devices.
Secondary objectives were related to plasma processes associated with direct current and pulsed firings of a low-power electron beam source.
The Matrix franchise and other fictional works (below) are considered inspired by Putnam's argument.
https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/29/insider/a-capsule-of-the-past-a-vessel-for-the-future.html?smid=nytcore-android-share See also The New York Times American Museum of Natural History Time capsule == References ==
Construction process Starting at four precisely defined points in the geostationary orbit, four space elevators are built.
There is a 1–10 cm (0.39-3.93 inch) air gap between that eliminates friction, allowing for speeds up to 500 km/h (310 mph).
The microchip also contains a copy of George's Secret Key to the Universe, a 2007 children's book authored by Stephen Hawking and his daughter, Lucy.
History Different synchronous non-rotating orbiting skyhook concepts and versions have been proposed, starting with Isaacs in 1966, Artsutanov in 1967, Pearson and Colombo in 1975, Kalaghan in 1978, and Braginski in 1985.
Possible methods of fabrication Constructing such a delicate probe would be a significant challenge.
It is also connected to an orbital ring, which is balanced by a similar orbital elevator and space city on the opposite side.
It also refers to an arrangement of matter that is the best possible form of computing device for that amount of matter.
Archived 1 June 2013 at the Wayback Machine Space Elevator Feasibility Archived 24 June 2013 at the Wayback Machine Tech Video coverage of the Space Elevator Competition in Israel Lighthouse DEV: Spinoff of the NSS Space Elevator Team Archived 4 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine
O'Neill proposed the colonization of space for the 21st century, using materials extracted from the Moon and later from asteroids.
Contrary to past unmanned interstellar mission studies such as Project Daedalus and Project Icarus, the focus is particularly on a small spacecraft.
According to him, such an endeavor would have the potential to prevent the natural ending of the universe.
Personoids on TV and cinema Welt am Draht (1973) The Thirteenth Floor (1999) See also Android Humanoid Intelligence Artificial Intelligence Culture Computer Science Cognitive Science Anticipatory science Memetics References Stanisław Lem's book Próżnia Doskonała (1971).
History In the 1990s, Bob Sinden of Imperial College, London, and Julian Crampton of the University of Liverpool, developed this idea and filled three related patents between 1997 and 2003.
Rationale Supporters of a superintelligence ban argue that once AI systems surpass human intelligence, traditional containment, alignment, and control methods may fail.
According to the Barrow scale, a modified variant of the Kardashev scale created by British physicist John D.
The Crusher can climb up slopes of more than 40 degrees and travel with more than 30 degrees of slope to the side.
Release Pending release, the film is being kept in a high-tech safe behind bulletproof glass that will open automatically on November 18, 2115, the day of the film's premiere.
Other notable award winners include Jacob Bekenstein, Sidney Coleman, Bryce DeWitt, Julian Schwinger (Nobel Prize in Physics, 1965), Martin Perl (Nobel Prize in Physics, 1995), Demetrios Christodoulou, Dennis Sciama, Gerard 't Hooft (Nobel Prize in Physics, 1999), Arthur E.
In popular culture The device is referenced in the Big Black song "Newman Generator", recorded for their 1987 Peel Session.
Pendray was sent a letter by anthropologist Clark David Wissler that he felt most things were well represented in a draft list of the items going into the time capsule, except perhaps that of a sewing machine and noteworthy ceremonies (i.e.
See also Autonomous robot List of military vehicles Multifunctional Utility/Logistics and Equipment References External links Path sampling for the crusher A brochure with pictures of the crusher
An amicus curiae brief of the American Psychological Association (APA) stated that the coercive persuasion theory that the plaintiffs advanced is not a meaningful scientific concept.
As with the CIA, he used drugs to make it easier to handle those he tortured, carefully determined how long to keep a prisoner hooded and when to isolate them and other techniques seen as medical torture.
Roko's basilisk analogously proposes that a rational person should contribute to the creation of the basilisk, because the cost of contributing would be insignificant compared to the extreme pain of the punishment that the basilisk would otherwise inflict on simulations.
By taking into account the realistic density distribution inside the Earth, as known from the preliminary reference Earth model, the expected fall-through time is reduced from 42 to 38 minutes.
Ning Li (Chinese: 李宁; pinyin: Lǐ Níng; January 14, 1943 – July 27, 2021) was a Chinese-American physicist.
Design and history The clock is similar to other mechanical clocks, except that it does not need winding.
A cable is then lowered from the ring to the ground and used in the same fashion as a traditional space elevator, with the difference being that the vertical cable is only 500 kilometres (310 mi) instead of 100,000 kilometres (62,000 mi) long.
The film was produced by the French company Rémy Martin to promote Louis XIII, their cognac that takes 100 years to create, and locked in a safe for a century.
Other potential sources of error include confirmation bias and publication bias (discarding negative results).
Perhaps because he received funding for some research through the US Office of Naval Research, it has been suggested (but not proven) that Delgado also received backing through the CIA.
In 2007, the Johns Hopkins University Center for Summer Learning awarded Breakthrough Collaborative and its affiliate site in Pittsburgh, with the Excellence in Summer Learning Award for exemplary mission, performance, and infrastructure in out-of-school academic support.
In addition, the Belin-Blank Center involves a clinic for assessment and counseling services and an institute for academic acceleration.
The School lists its values as including the belief that everyone is a teacher and everyone is a learner, all cultures should be honored, adults and children learn together, citizenship means making contributions to the community, and changes occur when people work together.
This was accomplished through cultural exchanges that take place in several learning circles, where each circle represents a major language other than English that is spoken by the participants.
MIT Open Learning develops new "to-campus" and "to-job" pathways for learners by combining its credentials (MicroMasters), online programs (MITx) and in-person programs (MIT Bootcamps).
Examples Specialist independent workshops exist to provide the facilities required for training and providing skills courses.
Potential Plus UK, officially the National Association for Gifted Children (NAGC), is a national association based in Milton Keynes in the United Kingdom, that offers support for high learning potential (gifted and talented) children, their parents and schools.
A summer camp especially for children may allow people to learn new skills in a safe and nurturing environment.
The results showed that intervention did work, and that it positively correlated with the communication skills show by the control group's children.
Through the teacher development program offered by Breakthrough, these young educators become potential candidates for professional teaching and educational leadership positions after college.
In the case of CBT and talking therapies, the effectiveness varies, with many reporting that they appeared 'too self-aware' to gain significant benefit, as the therapy was designed with neurotypical people in mind.
Since 2006, the program has been primarily funded privately yet is still free of charge for its students.
I consider no evil so great as the extension of slavery." During the first session, he volunteered as counsel for Drayton and Sayres, who were indicted for stealing 76 slaves in the District of Columbia, and at the trial was engaged for 21 successive days in their defense.
Instead of being a way out of poverty and a way to stay away from crime, for many, school has the opposite effect.
Self-directed theory states that humans by nature seek purpose and the desire to make a contribution and to be part of a cause greater and more enduring then oneself.
The goal of the programs shifted to preparing students for life at university and in the world of work.
Ireland In Ireland, most schools are state-aided Catholic parish schools, funded through government grants and per-student fees, regardless of whether schools charge additional fees.
and supported by public and private initiatives, the tuition-free school was the only one of its kind in the world.
Students live in residence halls located on the Middle Georgia State University campus in Cochran, interact with faculty, and are given similar status to traditional students within the university.
Potentially one of the first formal applications of expeditionary education were the field trips conducted through Henry David Thoreau and his brother John's Concord MA grammar school in 1838.
The academy is registered as a 501(c)(3) Nonprofit organization in Elgin, Illinois, and is accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools.
They are measured in combinations of standardized tests, peer and teacher evaluations and nominations, and observations of the particular child.
He was the father of Viggo Starcke, another writer and publisher of books such as Denmark in World History.
Comparative method Starcke speculation turned against the construction of history and wants it by the application of the comparative method to replace.
The Commission on the Secondary School Curriculum (1933–1940) addressed how curriculum could meet democratic ideals and student needs.
Longobardi was interviewed in the documentary film, Lucio Amelio/Terrae Motus (1993) directed by Mario Martone.
Act Early." campaign - Information for parents on early childhood development and developmental disabilities NINFS Pervasive Developmental Disorders Information Page
Those who do not advance after receiving Tier 3 intervention(s) typically qualify for a referral to special education.
The Department of Social Protection took over the responsibility from FÁS for Community Employment and Employment Services and over 800 former FAS staff.
For autistic adults, key treatment issues include residential care, job training and placement, sexuality, social skills, and estate planning.
CTY was founded in 1992, with its first summer programme running in 1993, and is based at Dublin City University in Glasnevin, Dublin 9.
See also Shibuya, Tokyo Alternative education Alternative school Alternative university Autodidacticism Democratic school Deschooling Education Anarchist free school Gifted education School Special education Unschooling John Dewey References External links Official site
They define decoding as the ability to read isolated words “quickly, accurately, and silently” and dependent fundamentally on the knowledge of the correspondence between letters and their sounds.
5 Pillar Certification TJEd parents and educators wanting an introduction to teaching through the classics can receive orientation and training to do so by completing The Five Pillar Certification.
History According to several interviews with Nayar, the idea of creating a camera for experiential learning stemmed from the 2004 film Born into Brothels, an Academy Award-winning documentary by Ross Kauffman and Zana Briski that profiles several children living in the red light district of Kolkata.
Early life Michelle Vignes was born in Reims in Grand Est, France; the exact date of her birth has discrepancies, and range between 1926 and 1928.
The child can do a variety of exercises with these materials, including matching them with the cylinder blocks, stacking them on top of each other to form a tower, and arranging them in size or different patterns.
Today, day camps offer exciting opportunities for exploration and skill development in a wide variety of subjects.
Developments In 2009, the newest building project was completed with the inauguration of the rebuilt Neubirkle boarding house.
See also List of Seventh-day Adventist colleges and universities Seventh-day Adventist education References External links Official website
Petty's style was characterized by her "gentle satirization of New York City's Victorian era society".
Currently, only the University of Science and Technology of China and Xi'an Jiaotong University still have this program.
Qualifications and roles Diction teachers are typically qualified professionals with a background in linguistics, phonetics, and also acting or singing.
In February 2019, the regional minister of education supports a transformation into a non-standard educational institution for gifted children.
According to NPR, she is considered "one of the foremost living memory painters." Early life Anderson was born September 3, 1941, in Floyd County, Georgia.
His spontaneity and topicality are reminiscent of the caricatures of Pancho Fierro, yet his representation of the indigenous peoples of Peru and their daily life is serious.
The measure had been announced in 2007, and intended to facilitate the improvement of terms and conditions for support staff.
In August 2013, EduScience, a Hong Kong-based manufacturer of toys and kits for learning, began distribution worldwide.
Both approaches contribute to confusion about the term, because the term PDD is intended by its coiners and major bodies to refer to a category of disorders and not be used as a diagnostic label.
In public Waldorf methods schools in the U.S., "God" has been removed from the verse and replaced with "the Sun" to avoid violation of the U.S.
In 2003, The Circle School successfully challenged a Pennsylvania law requiring students to either recite the Plede of Allegiance or sing the national anthem daily.
Gifted students may not reach their full potential with the standards of regular classwork, which can appear to progress at a slowed rate.
Until 1826, when what is now University College, London opened, English Dissenters were largely excluded from higher education, as only practising Anglicans could graduate from Oxford and Cambridge universities.
In addition to visual content, the program offers the option of producing audio-content via speech synthesis.
Lifewide learning adds important detail to the broad pattern of human development we call lifelong learning – all the learning and development one gains as one progresses along the pathway of one's life.
If learners are to "develop a democracy," some scholars have argued, they must be provided with the tools to transform society's non-democratic aspects.
The Franciscans were again driven out by the New Model Army during the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland in the 1650s.
It is the focus of education in Hong Kong, and was developed for higher education at the University of Surrey England.
Operating under democratic-school principles, the Group School was established primarily to serve students from working-class and low-income backgrounds.
Homeschool families can use a wide variety of educational methods and materials with a wide range of educational paradigms.
"The Problem of Martin Ramirez: Folk Art Criticism as Cosmologies of Coercion", The Clarion, Winter 1986.
There is an organization of the same name and acronym (NAGC) in the United States, with a similar remit and scope.
Ramirez migrated to the United States from Tepatitlan, Mexico to find employment, leaving behind his pregnant wife and three children.
Services for GT students inherently serve disadvantaged populations (with the implication that GT incidence is universal).
Political researchers Julia Mourao Permoser and Kristina Stoeckl investigated the links between GHEX and other rightwing homeschooling organisations, notably the HSLDA, the World Congress of Families, Swedish group ROHUS, the Alliance Defending Freedom, and Spanish organisation CitizenGo.
Sports offered as of 2020 include: co-ed cross country, girls volleyball, boys and girls basketball, co-ed ultimate frisbee and girls soccer.
Flexibilities During the course of the 07/08 contract year the LSC released several additional "flexibilities" applying to learner eligibility.
Paintings Kramarik is a self-taught painter and says that Jesus spoke to her when she was four years old, encouraging her to draw and paint her visions.
He quits SCOP Le Pavé in April 2012 in order to fully train people of the networks, especially with La Grenaille.
Art is not an added quality, the icing on the cake; it is rather the point of departure in the effort to find ways in which people can connect to their environment.
Following the death in 1795 of his close friend and fellow poet Tadhg Gaelach Ó Súilleabháin, Donnchadh Ruadh composed a eulogy for his friend in Neo-Latin verse.
Crutis continued that criticism of individual aspects of the school, such as its stance against uniform curriculum, was justified.
Birklehof School (German: Schule Birklehof) is a progressive educational boarding school and grammar school with a holistic approach located in Hinterzarten in the High Black Forest in Germany, approximately 25 km from Freiburg.
The Pan-Commonwealth Forum on Open Learning (PCF) is a recurring international conference organized by the Commonwealth of Learning (COL) in collaboration with host institutions across the Commonwealth.
Television Multiple episodes of Friends mention that Monica Geller, who used to be overweight before the beginning of the show, went to fat camp in her youth.
Delaware passed in 1831 a law that prevented the meeting of a dozen or more blacks late at night; additionally, black preachers were to petition a judge or justice of the peace before speaking before any assembly.
Even though there is almost no possibility to use electrical devices and no facilities such as hot water, the popularity of those camps is still increasing.
When students complete the program, they are awarded associate's degrees as well as high school diplomas from their former high schools, and can enter a four-year college or university with junior standing.
They are designed to build engagement with nature skills and create internal connections to the natural world for students, balancing safety and meaningful experiences in nature.
Beside producing content for e-learning, the software can be used to design graphic novels, interactive books and presentations.
SEB was developed by researchers from Sofia University, Bulgaria and the University of Wollongong, Australia.
Under the Nazi regime, Hahn was forced to emigrate to Scotland where he founded Gordonstoun School as well as later Outward Bound, Round Square and the United World Colleges.
Doddridge was frequently travelling and it was his wife Mercy Doddridge who looked after the school's finances.
StudentMentor.org checks with the pair throughout to see how the mentorship is progressing in addition to performing rigorous statistical analysis.
If a reader can decode the words accurately, but does not understand the meaning of the words in context, they will not have reading comprehension.
By managing the supply chain, companies are able to cut excess costs and deliver products to the consumer faster.
Attacks on MicroMUSE There were attacks on MicroMUSE, which would cause it to crash, by exploiting poorly written routines.
The software is used by college and university teachers in adult education and continuing education, in particular at occupational training institutions such as Corporate Universities.
Students from around the world travel here to learn hands-on techniques about sustainable travel through instructors and staff who encourage an adherence to the principles of Leave No Trace.
Egypt located in Cairo, a girl's branch in Maadi, a boy's branch in the 6th of October district, and a mixed branch in El Obour City.
He is credited as being the father of Christian Reconstructionism and an inspiration for the modern Christian homeschool movement.
The Olympic athletes and Paralympic athletes encourage the students to participate in the World Fit Walk, which is held each spring on the school’s campus, where the students, teachers and family walk daily for six weeks.
Vignes photo documented the San Francisco's counterculture of the 1960s, draft-card burning protests, the Black Panther Party, the American Indian Movement, the occupation of Alcatraz (1969–1971), the Wounded Knee Occupation (1973), and Oakland's Blues musicians (1980s–1990s).
She served as world vice president of Association Montessori Internationale and president of the Opera Nazionale Montessori.
of Education (January 1, 1968) Language: English ASIN B0007K2TJ8 References External links Whalesong.org review Amazon reviews of "School is Dead" Critical studies of schooling review Everett Reimer in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
Each human being has the right to develop their own identity, irrespective of ethnic origin, nationality, social environment, religion, philosophy or abilities/disabilities.
But, those who already passed more than a course in the three major fields are still allowed to apply for their further examinations.
The Education Program for Gifted Youth (EPGY) at Stanford University was a loose collection of gifted education programs formerly located within Stanford Pre-Collegiate Studies program.
Simultaneously, art teaching encourages participants to discover, unearth and also to lend weight to their own mental images.
They started out by delivering meals and groceries but now manage a community fridge providing free ingredients.
Experiential lessons in the school yard, field trips to national parks, after-school green clubs, and school-wide sustainability projects help make the environment an easily accessible topic.
In the face of growing criticism, board member John Todesco stated that the board would not remove Enloe's name from the school unless something "horrid" about him was uncovered.
Inflatable Inflatable (air filled) obstacle courses can have participants go through a variety of areas like the Bish Bash, a tall loose structure to push or wade through, nets to crawl under, walls to climb over and holes to jump through.
Those in the aviation community are called airman apprentice (AA) and wear green stripes on both navy blue and white uniforms.
Trillhaase's works can now be found, for example, in the Clemens Sels Museum in Neuss, in the Zander Collection in Cologne, and in Kolumba, the art museum of the Archdiocese of Cologne.
Improvement of study habits: Tutors can help students develop effective learning strategies and methods.
Building a knowledge society for all Education is considered one of the cornerstones of social economic development.
80 percent of its graduates have been enrolled in postgraduate programs at home or abroad, one third of whom have already obtained doctoral degrees.
Christian Education National (formerly Christian Parent Controlled Schools) represents eighty such schools around the country.
In a survey of adults homeschooled in Christian households, over half of respondents characterized their family as fundamentalist, and over 80% reported being taught Young Earth creationism as part of their science education.
Text of the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
Students may well graduate with no industrial oriented learning experience prior to their first job.
See also Jiddu Krishnamurti Jiddu Krishnamurti Schools Rishi Valley School The Valley School Vidyaranya High School The School KFI Walden's Path Alternative education Alternative school References External links The Walden School Official website
In his book The Real Frank Zappa Book, Zappa credited composer Spike Jones for his frequent use of funny sound effects, mouth noises, and humorous percussion interjections.
Over the two decades he painted, his output can be divided into three stylistic phases, shaped by both his declining eyesight and his commercial activities.
74 members of the Class of 2013 (38%) were National Merit or National Achievement Scholarship Semifinalists.
While the 2007 retrospective, The Last Works, was on view at the American Folk Art Museum, that museum was contacted by descendants of Dr.
Simultaneous communication, SimCom, or sign supported speech (SSS) is a technique sometimes used by deaf, hard-of-hearing or hearing sign language users in which both a spoken language and a manual variant of that language (such as English and manually coded English) are used simultaneously.
It is hoped that such a community will help reduce the sense of isolation felt by young special education teachers and other special education stakeholders in rural areas of Bulgaria.
Gifted and Talented Program, Macquarie University The University of New England - gifted programs at the undergraduate, Masters level, Graduate Certificate, and Research at Ph.D.
The Circle of Friends approach is a method designed to increase the socialization and inclusion of a disabled person with their peers.
Sites Reception Former CTY executive director Elaine Tuttle Hansen (2011–2018) was interviewed by National Public Radio and published on the Opinion-Editorial pages of The Chronicle of Higher Education, The New York Times, and The Baltimore Sun.
While the Supreme Court ruled that although Thomas Jones did have to license the school, the provincial government had to provide reasonable accommodation for religious belief.
The Academy originally admitted 60 students to each of the first five classes, but has begun increasing class size in accordance with an increase in state funding.
Finley found that at suburban, advanced, high-track classes were considered by teachers to be the most desirable classes to teach, and were taught by the most experienced, highly trained, and motivated teachers.
After the death of I.L.Sanin on September 8, 1910, the estate was inherited by his wife Maria Kondratyevna Sanina (née.
The Group School was an alternative high school in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States, in the 1970s.
As a child, Byrne supplemented the family income by selling The Barrier Miner, collecting bottles, and claiming bounties for collecting rabbit carcasses during the great rabbit plagues of the Broken Hill district at the end of the 19th century.
Acting workshops are often staffed by professionals, which can include acting coaches, directors, or actors.
Chris Mercogliano is an American author, speaker, educator and mentor who writes about progressive compassionate pedagogy aka alternative education.
Background Thomas Jones was a pastor in a fundamentalist church who did not want his three children educated in school and instead was teaching them himself in the basement of the church.
This circumstance contributed to shaping the image of the artist as topical spontaneous product of his environment and to project an ambivalent perception of his work, sometimes classified as non-academic and as a manifestation of the independent indigenousness.
The 'Sudbury' name refers to Sudbury Valley School, founded in 1968 in Framingham, Massachusetts, United States.
These camps offer a wide range of supervised activities, encouraging socialization, learning, and personal growth in a safe and supportive environment.
Rothbard argues that the history of the drive for compulsory schooling is not guided by altruism, but by a desire to coerce the population into a mold desired by dominant forces in society.
The Walden School developed an approach and methodology that enables children to discover multiple ways of solving problems in Mathematics and applying concepts in Science.
Anderson has exhibited her work at the Museum of Contemporary Art of Georgia, the Asheville Art Museum in North Carolina, the Manifest Gallery in Cincinnati, OH among other venues.
They are also allowed to join any of the clubs and organizations that Lamar University has to offer.
In Santa Cruz, Rushdoony became a reader of the Christian libertarian magazine Faith and Freedom, which advocated an "anti-tax, non-interventionist, anti-statist economic model" in opposition to Franklin D.
The National Instructional Materials Accessibility Standard (NIMAS) helps facilitate timely access to alternate formats of instructional materials for students with visual impairments or other print disabilities.
Alumni Notable alumni include the Israeli Arab journalist Sayed Kashua; composers Aviya Kopelman and Matti Kovler; historian Yair Mintzker; and Eran Shir, the founder of Dapper.
Mathematics is not taught here as an independent course of study, but totally integrated into the compulsory technical courses.
Interest in his work on the national and international stage was short-lived, and he was viewed primarily as a novelty, or exemplar of the "primitive" race-memory of an untutored, naive old Negro stone carver.
Frank offers Evelyn the opportunity to publish Diane's work if she drops her custody case, to which she reluctantly agrees.
History The origins of expeditionary education could be thought to extend far back into early human history through hunting and gathering expeditions where traditional ecological knowledge was learned.
The 1843 organisation With liberalisation, the Congregationalists adapted their focus, and the Board reorganised the former Homerton Academy as New College, London and what became Homerton College, Cambridge.
Does the task require students to use processes, products and procedures that simulate those used by people working in a similar field?
The higher apprenticeship is the only apprenticeship to have grown over the last three years, moving from 59,800 new starts in 2018/19 and 66,700 in 2019/20 to the current level of over 80,000 over the last 12 months.
EC1 Science and Technology Centre is a science centre located in the former Heat Power Station in Łódź, Poland.
They jointly identified Bible passages that resonated with the children, chief among them the parable of the Good Shepherd, and then developed hands-on materials and lesson plans that enabled the children to engage in the contemplation of these Bible passages.
Insofar as Duane's back-story was concerned, the RRG was fortunate to meet and interview Margaret Duane Duane's widow, who supported Berg's account of what happened to Duane before and after Risinghill.
Buehler was invited to give a TEDx talk about his experiences combating police abuse at the Harvard Graduate School of Education on April 12, 2014.
She is a self-taught artist who creates comic-styled pop art that depicts Latinx culture and iconography.
Samson's work is most recognizable for his use of a dark palette, depictions of figures with pupil-less eyes, and formal, ceremonious poses.
Adults who have experienced acceleration themselves, however, tend to be very well-disposed to the practice.
The exhibition was opened on 7 January 2018 and it is a part of the EC1 Łódź - City of Culture complex.
Voice actors learn how to enhance their skill of voicing a character, writers learn to how to give characters personality, and comedians can learn how to increase their comedic skill.
Notable alumni include the mathematician Maryam Mirzakhani, chess grandmaster Elshan Moradi, computer scientist Farinaz Koushanfar, and Unicode expert Roozbeh Pournader.
Characteristics Semester school curricula are built around themes including environmental sustainability, marine ecology, organic farming, ethics and leadership, visual arts, and others.
A 2017 study found similar participation rates (49.5% for AP Chemistry, 52.3% for AP Physics, 54.5% for Biology, and 68.9% for Calculus).
After participating in further exhibitions until 1932, he was banned from painting by the National Socialists in 1933 as a “degenerate artist.” On May 12, 1936, he died unnoticed in Niederdollendorf.
These well-structured source files can be used to create accessible specialized formats (i.e., braille, audio, e-text, large print, etc.) of print instructional materials.
These environments do not only include schools but also homes, workplaces, and locations where people pursue leisure activities.
This educational paradigm was popularized through the writing and teaching of Oliver and Rachel DeMille, co-authors of the TJEd resource materials.
A requirement for modality-specificity could potentially avoid including children whose poor auditory performance is due to general factors such as poor attention or memory.
In 1868, the poet Matthew Arnold – who was a school inspector by profession – was commissioned to report on the eligibility of the Homerton schools for public funding.
Educational philosophy The school stands in the tradition of progressive education reform, or "reform pedagogy" as it is called in Germany.
Choral studies The School of Choral Studies took place before 2020 at SUNY Fredonia, where students are led in daily chorus and private voice training, as well as given lessons in musical theater, opera, small ensembles, and voice recital.
Apprentices usually began at ten to fifteen years of age, and would live in the master craftsman's household.
The school is governed by a board of trustees and advised by both an Education Committee and a Rabbinic Advisory Committee.
Commercial Several indoor commercial indoor recreation and trampoline park companies have begun to include obstacle courses at their facilities, in many cases because of demand generated by television shows such as American Ninja Warrior, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Man: A Course of Study, usually known by the acronym MACOS or M.A.C.O.S., was an American humanities teaching program, initially designed for middle school and upper elementary grades.
Meetings occur every night between Residential Assistants and Scholars to discuss upcoming events, rules reminders, and general questions scholars may have.
History The Kansas Academy of Mathematics and Science was established by legislative action in 2006 by the Kansas Legislature.
Schools use a variety of tools for conducting classes – typically called learning management systems (LMS) or course management systems (CMS).
Here, the professional lecturer acts as a coach to help students with preparation and live performance.
For the former, higher education can play an important role in bridging knowledge gaps, but must benefit more than a small elite portion of the population and must be taught at international standards.
It is accepted and recognized by the European Union through the German Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
had between 1.5 and 2.5 million gifted and talented (GT) students, and only a small fraction received appropriate educational services.
This can occur without the presence of a facilitator, meaning that experiential learning is not defined by the presence of a facilitator.
SOLAS publishes an annual services plan setting out what further education and training courses will be provided in the sixteen ETBs in any one year and how much these courses will cost.
In 2006, Australian Psychological Society (APS) founded the Interest Group in Coaching Psychology (IGCP).
Several affiliate programs have focused their activities on day camps and weekend workshops, rather than sleepover summer camps.
Research Both a 2000 Swedish report, and a 2003 review concluded that according to the heuristic value in research, further research needed to be invited.
The best practices for online homeschooling are yet to be explored, and it is unclear if homeschooling, or any other mitigation effort, can prevent students from falling behind.
However, children with symptoms of APD typically have no evidence of neurological disease, so the diagnosis is made based on how the child performs behavioral auditory tests.
ArtAbilitation 2011 was held in Esbjerg, Denmark, alongside the inaugural GameAbilitation conference.
Castle was born profoundly deaf and for at least some time attended the Gooding School for the Deaf and the Blind in Gooding, Idaho, but it is not known to what extent he could read, write, or use sign language.
Works During the 2019 #MissionLoteria initiative in San Francisco, Alemán worked alongside artist Ivan C.
Curative teacher Bernd Ruf developed a comprehensive concept based on the insights of Waldorf education for this Emergency education after he had experienced the results of trauma on children in a refugee camp in Beirut during the war in Lebanon in 2006.
Many coaches have little training in comparison to the training requirements of some other helping professions.
While the approach is most prominently developed in the United States, related practices have emerged in other regions, including Canada, Australia, and across Scandinavia, often influenced by local outdoor traditions and cultural perspectives.
The oldest Democratic school still in existence is the boarding school Summerhill, located in Leiston (Suffolk, England).
Self-paced instruction differs from continuous progress instruction in that the student has a greater degree of control.
The resources include music tracks, instruction videos, and downloadable/printable record and instruction sheets.
The school was founded as an innovative pre-school and elementary school, emphasizing children's social, emotional, spiritual and physical development as well as academics.
See also EPODE International Network, the world's largest obesity-prevention network President's Council on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition Presidential Champions Award The President's Challenge References External links World Fit
Philadelphia Free School emphasizes critical thinking, personal responsibility, and democratic governance, rather than standardization and hierarchy.
Jung has published widely on Universal Design for Learning (UDL), Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS), classroom assessment, and individualized intervention planning.
Department of Education study, students who met with advisors regularly during their freshman year had a 170% greater chance of completing their bachelor's degree than those who did not.
In the British Isles, road verges serve as important habitats for a range of plants, including rare wildflowers.
13.6% were of German ancestry, 6.8% Irish, 6.4% English and 5.5% Polish heritage according to Census 2000.
Related terms Community displacement is used to describe movement in urban areas, while development-induced displacement typically describes movement connected with rural projects, such as dam projects.
This result is then used as a starting point for the development of environment-related strategies during the design process.
Certain nutrient amounts in a verge's soil can be influenced by the amount of traffic on the road it sits beside; roads with heavier traffic tend to have more nitrate in the soil due to nitrogen compounds from air pollution leaching out of the atmosphere and into the ground.
Marzahn (German pronunciation: [maʁˈtsaːn] ) is a locality within the borough of Marzahn-Hellersdorf in Berlin.
Property owners could utilize the land used in urban rewilding projects for a different purpose that is more economically beneficial.
References Allen, James P., and Eugene Turner 1997:The Ethnic Quilt: Population Diversity in Southern California.
They have often housed working-class people, immigrants, and/or young families in industrial towns who may have otherwise been excluded by these property markets.
As part of the opposition to the bond, the slogan "Don't Californicate Colorado" was coined, appearing on bumper stickers and placards across the state.
It can result in demolishing smaller, older houses in neighborhoods and replacing them with brand new ones that occupy the maximum amount of lot space available and are much larger in comparison to the surrounding dwellings, changing the character of neighbourhoods.
The Neustadt in Bremen (without separate institutions) was built in the 17th century in order to keep distance between the new city wall (and possible besiegers) and the city's harbour.
Programs and policies designed to attract gentrifying families to historically disinvested schools may have unintended negative consequences, including an unbalanced landscape of influence wherein the voices and priorities of more affluent parents are privileged over those of lower-income families.
Egypt The Egyptian Arabic word for square is Midan, which also means "Place", and is a common term for central squares in Egypt.
While the Tofu Curtain most often refers to these specific regions of Victoria and Western Massachusetts, other tofu curtains have been named along similar socioeconomic, educational, ideological, political and/or ethno-racial divides in various locations around the globe.
Notably, In Minnesota, the Minneapolis 2040 plan called for up-zoning the city to allow more missing middle housing types throughout the city.
A special authority can be set up, under the joint jurisdiction of two or more government bodies or as an independent park district to administer parks.
When all five blocks have reached the ultimate size of 1,240 feet (380 m) four street lengths out of total eight have been eliminated.
History Inverkeithing town hall had served municipal functions in Inverkeithing since 1755, but by the mid 20th century Inverkeithing's population had grown from 1,684 in 1755 to 5,139 in 1951.
A notable disadvantage of terminating vistas is that they make traffic more complicated and prevent a simple grid system of city blocks.
The name Flagstone is from Flagstone Creek which flows into the Logan River just south of Chadwick Drive in South Maclean (27.8017°S 153.0053°E﻿ / -27.8017; 153.0053﻿ (Flagstone Creek (mouth))).
Some are isolated, with only one entrance, or otherwise connected with the rest of the community in few ways.
The Sosa-Wonsi Line opened in 2018, connecting Bucheon's Sosa station of the Line 1 with Ansan's Choji station of Seoul Subway Line 4.
Henri Lefebvre, who pioneered the "right to the city", argued in The Production of Space (1974) that space was a social product, a complex social construction based on values and the social production of meanings, which affected spatial practices and perceptions.
Late Middle Ages In some places the "Neustadt" was a late medieval enlargement, sometimes the consequence of a growth of population, sometimes of modernized fortifications.
Economic value Sari-sari stores play a vital role in the Philippine economy, particularly at the grassroots level.
Hem are characterized by their narrow width and are lined with narrow, multistory buildings known as tube houses, creating a dense and vertical urban form.
The amendment was a response to growing concern around affordable housing, and as an effort to promote "gentle densification" by tapping into roughly 2400 publicly owned laneways spread across the city.
The terms "hundred percent location", "hundred percent corner", or "peak land value intersection" may also be used.
Geography Elizabeth is the seat of the Playford local government area and thus acts as a central business district for the surrounding suburbs.
The study found a direct link between an increase in PERS scores (and therefore an increase in the quality of a street for pedestrians) and residential house prices.
The front portion, often about 10 metres depth of the front of a building was retained, with taller development setback behind the retained portion.
According to popular history the name came from the existence of an old cross built long before 1850 along the banks of a stream near the ranch.
In modern times some suburban areas described as "sprawl" have less detached housing and higher density than the nearby core city.
It is based on an ideology popularised by Le Corbusier with the Plan Voisin, an expansion of the Garden city movement aimed at reducing the problem of urban congestion.
Common examples of essential characteristics include intensity of development (from rural to suburban to urban) and building use (church, hospital, school, apartment, house, etc.) Non-essential characteristics are those which, if modified, would not change the building type.
The Yongin–Seoul, Gyeongbu and Bundang-Suseo Urban Expressways connect Bundang with Seoul and nearby city centers.
A city centre, also known as an urban core, is the commercial, cultural and often the historical, political, and geographic heart of a city.
Strollology or Promenadology is the science of strolling (German: Spaziergangswissenschaft) as a method in the field of aesthetics and cultural studies with the aim of becoming aware of the conditions of perception of the environment and enhancement of environmental perception itself.
As the city expanded, additional sectors would be added to the end of each band, so that the city would become ever longer, without growing wider.
Ijangs are the terraced hillfort settlements of the Ivatan people built on hill tops and ridges in the Batanes Islands of the Philippines.
The unequal design of these "mansions" to the still-standing homes creates issues of character within neighborhoods, as well as, issues of property value.
The Golden Banana (Spanish: Plátano dorado, French: Banane dorée), also known as the Sun Belt is an area of higher population density lying between Cartagena in the west and Genoa in the east along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea.
Pā that have been extensively studied after the New Zealand Wars and more recently were found to safeguard food- and water-storage sites or wells, food storage pits (especially for kūmara), and small integrated plantations, maintained inside the pā.
It differs from mere suburbs, subdivisions and especially bedroom communities in that it has employment bases sufficient to support its residential population, and conceptually, could be a self-sufficient community outside of its larger metropolitan area.
Porirua City Council won a Cycle Friendly Award for this project from the Cycling Advocates' Network in 2003.
The term itself is also used to refer to the indigenous process of decision-making by the elders, or to the council of elders themselves.
Preservation as museums The Birmingham Back to Backs are a historic house museum created by The National Trust for the city's last remaining back-to-back houses.
A driving force of the movement is to put the onus back on individuals to take personal responsibility in creating sustainable buildings, streets, neighborhoods, and cities.
Held in April 2002 as a five-day Community Planning Weekend, the charrette engaged more than 1,000 residents, youth, business leaders, and local officials to reimagine Scarborough's identity and economy.
Landmarks Tancheon Sports Complex Tancheon Sports Complex, in Bundang's Yatap-dong neighborhood, was known as the Seongnam 2nd Complex during construction and renamed in January 2006.
Soviet Union and other post-Soviet states The Soviet planned economy aimed to establish industrial facilities in rational locations, based on military, political, bureaucratic and economic criteria.
The streets of Kuala Lumpur's Golden Triangle (the city's main business and shopping district) are closed to vehicles to allow pedestrians and cyclists to utilize the space for exercising, skating, and cycling.
Examples include ViaHero which allows users to have personalized trips created with the help of local residents.
Some jurisdictions, such as Virginia, may use the term adjacent landowner, while others, such as California, use the term adjoining landowner, and the United States Environmental Protection Agency defines rights of contiguous property owners (CPO).
Others include: The Chicago Lakefront Trail, the Dubai Marina, the East River Greenway, New Plymouth Coastal Walkway, and the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway.
The goal is to help controlling employees or board member to use the existing data more effective and efficient.
Location The third phase of the Uttara residential model town is situated approximately 20 km (12 mi) from the zero point of Dhaka City.
See also Law on Solidarity and Urban Renewal References External links Spanish property buyers guide
Geography Núcleo Bandeirante is located in the Brazilian Highlands, at an altitude of 1,000 metres (3,300 ft).
This is slightly over a quarter (25.6%) of the population of Canada, approximately 75% of Ontario's population, and one of the largest metropolitan areas in North America.
Steubenville, Ohio along with neighboring Weirton, West Virginia had an independent regional identity until the collapse of the steel industry in the 1980s.
The acronym "ZAD" is a détournement of "deferred development area" (from French: zone d'aménagement différé).
Not only is the merit of a green belt subverted, but the green belt may heighten the problem and make the city unsustainable.
A forum (Latin: forum, pl.: fora; English pl.: either fora or forums) was a public square in a municipium, or any civitas, of ancient Rome reserved primarily for the vending of goods; i.e., a marketplace, along with the buildings used for shops and the stoas used for open stalls.
A sustained program maintains a focus consonant with its original goals and objectives, including the individuals, families, and communities it was originally intended to serve.
Some of the earliest interventions in urban planning include the use of computational statistical analysis by the Community Analysis Bureau in Los Angeles in the late 1960s and the establishment by Singapore of the National Computer Board in 1981.
To contain disruptive behaviour, local authorities began to place "problem families" in the same blocks; Hanley argues that this policy only led to "further alienation ...
However, the courts will objectively consider a proper case brought by an abutter whose rights have been arguably under-appreciated.
In real estate, a battle axe block, hammerhead block, hatchet block or flagpole block is a block of land situated behind another, with access to the street through a narrow driveway shared by both properties.
Zoning for single-family homes was expanded in the 1950s and the building of duplexes or triplexes largely became illegal in Portland.
Mansionization is an urban planning term associated with the practice of building the largest possible size of home.
The township (now suburb) of Elizabeth was established on 16 November 1955, being named after Queen Elizabeth II, queen of Australia, and inaugurated by Sir Thomas Playford, who was then premier of South Australia.
Northeast megalopolis, exurban areas incorporate pre-existing towns, villages and smaller cities, as well as strips of older single-family homes built along pre-existing roads that connected the older population centers of what was once a rural area.
Some cities that were formerly part of the administrative region of Taguatinga are: Ceilândia, Samambaia, Águas Claras and Vicente Pires.
Topics The Removal of Distance William Wilson's location theory attempts to provide an explanation for the widening poverty and inequality gap.
While its flexibility has contributed to its popularity, it has also led to concerns that placemaking can function as a vague umbrella concept encompassing a wide range of practices and agendas.
Setbacks along state, provincial, or federal highways may also be set in the laws of the state or province, or the federal government.
Without great streets and ways to different regions, getting around can take a pointlessly lengthy timespan - making it harder for individuals to walk and cycle.
It also showed a 7 to 10 percent range of reduction in driving with respect to the remainder six neighbourhood layouts in the set.
To find innovative economical opportunities and synergies: and deliver value-adding products and services.
Thus, the 38-story Equitable Building, constructed in New York in 1915, produced a huge shadow, said to "cast a noonday shadow four blocks long", which effectively deprived neighboring properties of sunlight.
A laneway house is a form of detached secondary suites in Canada built into pre-existing lots, usually in the backyard and opening onto the back lane.
History In 1914, the outer areas of Incheon (including Gwangyo-dong, old Incheon's city center) and Bupyeong County were joined under the name Bucheon.
The largest industry employers in Palmerston are public administration & safety (2,751 or 21.3 per cent), retail trade (1,190 or 9.2 per cent), construction (892 or 6.9 per cent), health care & social assistance (829 or 6.4 per cent) and education & training (825 or 6.4 per cent).
General Motors purchased the Kaiser Frazer plant, and converted it into its Hydramatic Division (now called its Powertrain division), beginning production in November 1953.
Examples TEN-T Core Network Corridors – planned infrastructure network in the European Union Transportation Corridor Agencies – administrative body for toll roads in Orange County, California.
Murihiku Pa: An Investigation of Pa Sites in the Southern Areas of New Zealand (PDF) (Master of Arts).
The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary defines an ecist, oekist or oikist as: "the founder of an ancient Greek ...
Concrete was to be an integral part of the tower-block designs; it could be poured on site, offering boundless flexibility to the building designers.
In the area of transportation, the SRU Law promoted measures aimed at reducing automobile use in zones adequately served by public transport, including limitations on the number of parking spaces at shopping centers and multiplex cinemas.
The barangay hall also serves as a local community center, often providing space for both permanent and temporary services and events.
The Arcade in Providence, Rhode Island introduced the retail arcade concept to the United States in 1828 and is arguably the oldest "shopping center" in the country.
Smart homes and specifically, the technology used in them, contribute data and connection to smart cities as a whole.
Greater Flagstone is situated along the Sydney–Brisbane rail corridor between two future employment precincts at North Maclean and Bromelton.
To call attention to this new condition, an unknown person installed two small planter boxes within the crosswalk with flowering plants.
There are ten secondary schools, two music schools, a school of Arts, and three libraries in Brovary.
However, three of South Africa's four largest banks have kept their head offices in downtown Johannesburg.
Alam Sutera, Gading Serpong, Sentul City, Kota Deltamas, Kota Jababeka, and Pantai Indah Kapuk (PIK).
United Nations The New Urban Agenda emphasized the importance of smart city development, establishing a fundamental commitment for the UN's 193 member states.
A key requirement of tourism has been to attract more and more tourists from different parts of the world.
In addition to the dynamic waterfront location, the Avenue of Stars provides visitors a "front-row seat"(stand) to the Symphony of Lights, the world's largest light and sound show.
However, it proved unfeasible to provide all public services within every city block, due to the latter's relatively compact size; it was not unusual to have a school, a kindergarten, or a store serving the population of several blocks, which were often separated by major motor roads.
Governor Tom McCall was interviewed by Terry Drinkwater and appeared on national television January 12, 1971, for his acclaimed conservation experience.
Tim Ingold coined the term in his 1993 article defining the spatial and temporal dimensions of the landscape in human life.
Palmerston also receives radio and television services sourced from transmitters located in the Darwin region, which include the three commercial channels 7 Darwin, Nine Darwin and Darwin Digital Television and the two Government-owned channels ABC and SBS.
On the opposite side of the Nerang River, Bruce Small started to build Paradise City, with the Isle of Capri as its glitzy centrepiece.
A much larger example would be the 550,000-square-foot (51,000 m2) Broadway-Crenshaw Center in Los Angeles built in 1947, anchored by a five-story Broadway and a May Company California.
"They begin as embryonic subdivisions of a few hundred homes at the far edge of beyond, surrounded by scrub.
The median age in the city was 32.9 years; 30% of residents were under the age of 18; 7.5% were between 18 and 24; 32.1% were from 25 to 44; 23.1% were from 45 to 64; and 7.2% were 65 or older.
A walking audit is an assessment of the walkability or pedestrian access of an external environment.
Labor never came remotely close to winning seats in Palmerston until 2005, when that year's massive Labor landslide saw Labor take Brennan and Drysdale off the CLP.
The area is also often referred to simply as southern California or colloquially as SoCal (a larger region which includes San Diego).
In the cases of London and Paris he notes how these edge cities developed with government planning and with integrated public transportation.
His aim was a greater economic integration in Europe, but he felt that France had lost this connection by the 17th century as a result of its persecution of Huguenots and centralisation in Paris.
Thus, the placement and creation of pocket parks tends to be an opportunistic product of environmental circumstance rather than through deliberate master planning.
These particular greyfield sites are also referred to as "dead malls" or "ghostboxes" if the anchor or other major tenants have vacated the premises leaving behind empty shells.
Governor Macquarie felt a permanent settlement would lead to order in the area and so Campbell-Town was born in 1820.
In New Urbanism, an exception to infill is the practice of urban agriculture in which land in the urban or suburban area is retained to grow food for local consumption.
The build-out calculation provides the supply of development for forecasting future land use growth.
These gatherings would host people from all walks of life: political figures, poets, philosophers, and common folk, subsets of people that wouldn't have otherwise interacted as part of their daily routine.
Covering just under 200 square kilometers, about half of the wildlife and plant species within the Belt are classified as threatened or endangered.
Each respective region is also known as a "megalopolis", a term initially coined to define Northeastern United States, which ranges from Boston in the north to Washington, D.C.
the great length) Western Australia Formal recognition of the importance of roadside reserves occurred in the 1960s when then-Premier of Western Australia, the Hon.
After the Act of Mediation, the "Vorort of Switzerland" would rotate each year between the capital of Aarau and the cities of Zürich, Bern, Lucerne, Fribourg, Solothurn and Basel.
Although these cities were considered to be utopian ideas, two cities were eventually built in this vision, Letchworth and Welwyn, England.
Newgrange Tarpan References Sources Further reading "In Search of the Indo-Europeans: Language, Archaeology and Myth" by J.
Joondalup Private Hospital is also incorporated into the public Health Campus, and both facilities are owned and operated by Ramsay Health Care.
At the edges of the district the urban make-up shifts almost abruptly into residential neighborhoods, creating palpable boundaries.
"Middleweight cities" with populations between 200,000 and 2 million residents are expected to drive 40% of the region's urban development growth, and the ASCN aims to help ASEAN Member States plan and enact initiatives that wish to bring more cities up to the metropolitan level.
To avoid complications, some jurisdictions allow severances of a minor nature to proceed without a plan of subdivision, as long as other criteria are met.
United States Canal estates originated in the United States, where developer Abbot Kinney sought to create a Venice-like city in swampland on the outskirts of Los Angeles.
As a result, some critics argue that sprawl has certain disadvantages including longer transport distances to work, high car dependence, inadequate facilities (e.g.
Hoddle Grid is the name given to the layout of Melbourne, Victoria, named after the surveyor Robert Hoddle, who marked it out in 1837 establishing the first formal town plan.
The specific characteristics required for such a plot to be considered a "solar" are set for each Spanish Autonomous Region based on these criteria.
In addition, they extended the plan two blocks east between Texas and Capitol avenues, with a site for a new auditorium planned for the block between Milam and Louisiana streets.
those severed by arterial roads, or with many long culs-de-sac, are considered to discourage movement on foot and encourage longer journeys by car.
Other noteworthy civic centres include: Barking and Dagenham Civic Centre at Becontree Heath (1937).
References External links "The lost art of the Terminated Vista" - UrbanIndy description "Get to Know the Awkwardly-Named 'Terminated Vista'" - Placemakers
Reducing noise pollution and playing a role in urban beautification are other claimed benefits of green alleys.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, boomtowns called mill towns would quickly arise due to sudden expansions in the timber industry; they tended to last the decade or so it took to clearcut nearby forests.
This also spread to other countries in Europe with Germany building its first garden city in 1909 and Canberra in Australia where the main goal was to reestablish and maintain forest cover around the city.
Another notable company located in the city is OAO Kompozit, which is engaged in the field of materials science.
These conditions relate primarily to water supply and access to the electrical grid, disposal or purification of wastewater and road access.
In July 2018, five agreements were signed during the Opening Ceremony of the Inaugural ASCN Meeting.
Rather than building upon greenfield land, a developer may choose to redevelop brownfield or greyfield lands, which have been developed but left abandoned or underused.
In some cities, Vancouverism requires a lengthy planning process, especially in cities with many restrictions on developments.
Etymology The term was coined by the urban researcher Terry McGee of the University of British Columbia around 1990.
An example would be a formerly industrial waterfront site that is potentially valuable as a mixed use/residential site as it is being encroached upon by residential sprawl, or other economic or redevelopment pressures.
New Administrative Capital Saudi Arabia King Abdullah Economic City, being developed by Emaar Properties and listed on KSA's stock exchange.
Characterized by significant industrialization and urbanization, this area has attracted numerous public and private enterprises since the early post-war period, prompting researchers and academics to investigate the factors behind its remarkable development within Europe.
These areas are designed in a manner such that the majority of patients living in these areas use primary care services form within the area.
Satellite City), commonly known as Satélite, is a middle-, upper-middle and upper-class area in Naucalpan, in the western part of Greater Mexico City, located some 14 km northwest of the Historic Mexico City Center.
Although cities such as Los Angeles are well known for sprawling suburbs, policies and public opinion are changing.
It is synonymous with the Ilocano verb wagwag, an act of dusting off a piece of clothing by taking hold of one end and snapping it in the air, and shaking the item to dust it off; and SM, meaning segunda mano (secondhand), which is also a pun on the foremost Philippine retail chain SM.
Doxiadis advocated for the framework to be the foundation of a field of science, rather than an interdisciplinary framework.
It is notable for being the home to the Houston City Hall, City Hall Annex, Hermann Square, Bob Casey United States Court House, Sam Houston Park, and both the Jesse.
Economy Based on data from the 2018 Household Sample Survey (PDAD), conducted by the Federal District Planning Company (Codeplan), 58.7% of the population (64,833 people) aged 14 or older was economically active.
This can pose danger for other vehicles that may not see entering traffic, especially if the road is bordered by garages.
The lessons learned in this study were: Incorporate features that will maximize environmental benefits.
A 2022 study found that lower maximum-allowed FAR in New York City led to lower land value and lower density.
It also advocates compact, transit-oriented, walkable, bicycle-friendly land use, including neighborhood schools, complete streets, and mixed-use development with a range of housing choices.
Inadequate infrastructure and services While roads have been constructed, many areas still lack water supply, electricity, gas connections, and sewage infrastructure.
Community sustainability Sustainability in community programs is the capacity of programs (services designed to meet the needs of community members) to continuously respond to community issues.
Other terms for these areas include suburban activity centers, megacenters, and suburban business districts.
The North and South sectors were established as the city's more affluent areas with larger residential lots.
Lower Mainland (British Columbia) British Columbia's Lower Mainland is the most populated area in Western Canada.
Unlike Western countries, the Soviet Union did not redevelop existing residential or commercial areas; microdistricts were always built further and further out from old parts of cities, so planning of local services, and transportation to employment in old parts of the city were critical.
A traditional maneaba is an imposing structure, with slabs of coral supporting a huge roof formed from coconut wood, held together with coconut string and thatched with pandanus leaves.
Each has aggressively pursued strategies to manage projected population growth and strengthen economic prosperity in its large regions.
It may be denoted as a borough (in English-speaking countries), Portugal/Brazil (bairro), Spain (barrio); or some other term (e.g.
An embryonic city regional framework exists in the form of the Passenger Transport Executive and the Core Cities Group.
Alleys may also be retrofitted to serve other objectives, such as reducing waste or light pollution.
Yellowcake (uranium oxide) is partially refined uranium ore, called so because of its bright yellow color.
"Boomburbs: The Emergence of Large, Fast-Growing Suburban Cities in the United States." Fannie Mae Foundation, Census Note 06.
There were also 59,185 traffic offences recorded in 2007, the majority of which were committed by passenger vehicles (39,773).
The questionnaire consisted of statements and the statements were evaluated through the five-point Likert scale.
There are heiau to treat the sick (heiau hōʻola), offer first fruits, offer first catch, start rain, stop rain, increase the population, ensure the health of the nation, achieve success in distant voyaging, reach peace, and achieve success in war (luakini).
There are even stories from Hawaiian folklore attributing the creation of these temples to the menehunes, a group of legendary dwarf people.
David Brand, ensured all new roads in Western Australia would have road reserves at least 40 metres wider than that needed for transport purposes.
There may also be a zone of degradation where the buildings are changing from CBD usage to residential land use.
These include plant life, water features – also known as blue spaces – and other kinds of natural environments.
They also lead to dispersion of functions, as the need for pockets of dense development that rely on each other becomes less important.
Current Functions As well as performing council functions, Inverkeithing civic centre has a library and heritage centre.
The JSE Securities Exchange, Johannesburg's stock exchange, relocated its offices to Sandton from the central business district in the late 1990s.
Arcology designs might apply conventional building and civil engineering techniques in very large, but practical projects in order to achieve pedestrian economies of scale that have proven, post-automobile, to be difficult to achieve in other ways.
The public buildings imagined in this draft plan included a city hall, a county administration building, buildings for the courts, a post office, a central library, and an auditorium.
Potentials The potential of the transect as an urban planning tool lies in: 1) Education: it is easy to understand 2) Coding: it can be directly translated into the familiar legal framework of Euclidean Zoning districts particularly in Canada and the United States.
In architecture and urban planning discourse, typology is sometimes distinguished from morphology, which is the study and classification of buildings according to their shape or form (gk.
Many Parisian streets have retained their ancient denomination in spite of city growth; today it is still possible to discern pre-1701 delimitations in Paris by marking the point where a thoroughfare's name changes from rue to rue du faubourg.
The barangay's day care center and office space for the tanods and the barangay health workers are often located there.
After 1989 (as the Berlin Wall fell and Germany reunified), the Marzahn estate became known for being a place synonymous with neo-Nazis and their activities and "foreigners were warned not even to visit there", despite the area having a significant Russian and Vietnamese community.
The most prominent example of a setback technique is the step pyramids of Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt, such as the Teppe Sialk ziggurat or the Pyramid of Djoser.
The American report excludes Canadian population centers that are not deemed to be closely adjacent to US megaregions.
The most typical data collected for a comprehensive plan include data about the environment, traffic conditions, economic conditions, social conditions (such as population and income), public services and utilities, and land use conditions (such as housing and zoning).
Example analysis A typical analysis of build-out might start with 10 acres (40,000 m2) of land with a proposed density of 4 dwelling units per acre.
Functions In addition to its standard function as a marketplace, a forum was a gathering place of great social significance, and often the scene of diverse activities, including political discussions and debates, rendezvous, meetings, et cetera.
Civil Lines, historically known as White Town, were residential neighborhoods developed during the British Raj for senior civilian officers, such as the Divisional Commissioner and District Magistrate.
A bust of Demetrios Ypsilantis by Greek sculptor Christopher Nastos stands between a Greek and a US flag at the base of the landmark Ypsilanti Water Tower.
They were intended to represent man's ability to transform nature according to his will, which is one of the tenets of the Juche ideology.
The International Committee on Systematic Bacteriology's subcommittee on taxonomy of Leptospira proposed classifying these serovars into two big groups: L.
Atransferrinemia is an autosomal recessive metabolic disorder in which there is an absence of transferrin, a plasma protein that transports iron through the blood.
It was first described in 1937 by American pediatrician Donovan James McCune and American endocrinologist Fuller Albright.
There is no vaccine, and treatment of horses with antibiotics may be effective but is only used in endemic areas because treatment does not reliably produce a bacteriologic cure and may lead to subclinical carrier animals which can then infect humans and other animals.
This mutation, which occurs only in the mosaic state, leads to constitutive receptor signaling and inappropriate production of excess cAMP.
Symptoms and signs Manifestations include enlarged viscera, hepatomegaly, diabetes, short stature and cranial hyperostosis.
Although researchers do not know how a reduction in the amount of p300 protein leads to the specific features of Rubinstein–Taybi syndrome, it is clear that the loss of one copy of the EP300 gene disrupts normal development.
The mutation typically results in a deficient form of a lysosomal enzyme called palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1).
blattarum is of a round, ovoid or pear-shaped unicellular organism with two tufts of flagella borne on the anterior end of the cell.
Signs and symptoms People with Shprintzen-Goldberg syndrome can experience a range of symptoms that vary in severity.
First, CTVTs can only be experimentally induced by transplanting living tumor cells, and not by killed cells or cell filtrates.
Between these two arches on the lateral walls of the oropharynx is the tonsillar fossa which is the location of the palatine tonsil.
https://doi.org/10.1111/jvim.15844 External links Type strain of Corynebacterium renale at BacDive - the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase
Fibro-adipose vascular anomaly, also known as FAVA, is a type of vascular anomaly that is both rare and painful.
(1935) Hans Zinsser's Rats, Lice and History, although a touch outdated on the science, contains many useful cross-references to classical and historical impact of typhus.
Saprozoonosis (sap′ro-zo-o-no′sis) is a form of zoonosis in which its agent needs both a vertebrate host, as well as a nonanimal site, such as soil, plant or food, in order to complete its life cycle.
Treat, control and prevent In May 2018, at the 86th General Session of the OIE held in Paris, several revisions to international standards and guidelines were discussed.
This guideline is practised for both sexes, as the bulls of mothers with recurrent vaginal prolapse can pass the inherited trait to their offspring.
The radiation therapy is typically delivered in 10-18 treatment sessions over the course of 2–4 weeks.
Similar or related medical conditions are arachnodactyly, aminoaciduria, congenital cataracts, cerebellar ataxia, and delayed developmental milestones.
Researchers hope that inserting genes from the sheep MCF virus into the topi MCF virus will ultimately be an effective MCF vaccine for cattle and bison.
Defining and declaring an epizootic can be subjective; health authorities evaluate the number of new cases in a given animal population during a given period, and estimate a rate of spread that substantially exceeds what they might expect based on recent experience (i.e.
The types of control measures depend on the setting (such as epidemiologic, ecologic, and cultural factors).
This indicates that the defective gene responsible for a disorder is located on an autosome (chromosome 11 is an autosome), and only one copy of the defective gene is sufficient to cause the disorder, when inherited from a parent who has the disorder.
These are not treatment per se, more methods of control or metaphylactic treatment, as we are treating many animals before there is an actual diagnosis.
MAP is akin to, but distinct from, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the main cause of tuberculosis in humans, and Mycobacterium bovis, the main cause of tuberculosis in cattle and occasionally also in humans.
Interdigital necrobacillosis or Phlegmona interdigitalis or foot rot, also known as foul-in-the-foot, or infectious pododermatitis, is a hoof infection commonly found in sheep, goats, and cattle.
Without these immune functions, individuals with isolated congenital asplenia are extremely susceptible to infection.
The syndrome has also been referred to as Snyder–Robinson X-linked mental retardation syndrome (MRXSSR) and spermine synthase deficiency.
Other names for this condition include: Duane's retraction syndrome, eye retraction syndrome, retraction syndrome, congenital retraction syndrome and Stilling-Türk-Duane syndrome.
Its projects and programs focus on issues involving free-ranging and captive terrestrial and aquatic wild animals.
Biosecurity Under the SPS agreement of the World Trade Organization, the World Organisation for Animal Health has set requirements to prevent the spread of FMD through the trade in animal products.
Other skeletal signs include flattened vertebrae (platyspondyly), severe protrusion of the breastbone (pectus carinatum), a hip joint deformity in which the upper leg bones turn inward (coxa vara), and a foot deformity known as clubfoot.
Cassidy states the need for a clear delineation of behavioral expectations, the reinforcement of behavioural limits, and the establishment of regular routines.
Toxocara malayasiensis is a species of feline roundworm, a parasite which infects the intestine of cats.
ovale, a treatment plan of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, artesunate, or a quinine and clindamycin was tried with good results.
Diagnostic test evaluation Veterinary epidemiologists assess the performance of diagnostic tests using measures including sensitivity (the probability of a positive test result when disease is present) and specificity (the probability of a negative test result when disease is absent).
For example, the chimera may have a liver composed of cells with one set of chromosomes and have a kidney composed of cells with a second set of chromosomes.
Preliminary results report the drug has completely cleared away storage material from the white blood cells of the first six patients, as well as slowing down the rapid neurodegeneration of infantile NCL.
In some cases it may be downsized gradually so that tissue can strengthen over time and compensate for the decreasing size of the obturator.
Hearing may be impaired, either by conductive loss due to hypermobility of ossicles, by inflamed tympanic membrane, or sensorineurally through the vestibular aqueduct.
Clinical significance The nodules where the filariae reside (as described above) are aneurysms - bulges in the aorta wall - which could conceivably rupture.
The wall of the ileum contains a large number of pockets of lymphoid tissue known as Peyer's patches that lie just beneath the interior surface of the intestine.
Treatment Balantidiasis can be treated with one of the standard protocols: tetracycline 500mg 4x/day x 10 days or metronidazole 750mg 3x/day x 5 days or iodoquinol 650mg 3x/day x 20 days.
Eyes: Strabismus, optic nerve hypoplasia (which may cause light sensitivity, decreased visual acuity, or involuntary eye movements).
Signs of infection The first sign of a foot-rot infection is when the skin between the claws of the hoof begins to swell (cellulitis).
In addition, CWD has been found in one Minnesota red deer farm, one wild reindeer herd in Norway (March 2016) as well as in wild moose.
This dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase dysfunction disrupted folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism, leading a deficiency of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate.
Breastfeeding mothers may develop candidiasis on and around the nipple due to the moisture created by excessive milk production.
People with SCS have pointy, tower-like heads because their brain is growing faster than their skull, resulting in increased intracranial pressure (ICP) and causing the top of the head and/or forehead to bulge out to allow for brain growth.
Iodoquinol is effective against both the cyst and trophozoite stage of the parasite, but is limited to the gastrointestinal sites and is not effective when the infection disseminates outside because it is not well absorbed in blood plasma.
However, because hyperthyroidism in McCune–Albright syndrome does not resolve, surgery or radiation are more definitive treatments.
Especially due to the deletion and duplication process, the chromosomes that come together in a new cell may be shorter or longer.
Menkes disease is usually fatal, with the majority of affected children dying within the first ten years of life.
The area occupied by non-Moredun organisations is approximately 55,000 sq ft, and these tenants employ over 200 people.
rickettsii; however, these four changes lead to complete differences in virulence, and thus the niche of the bacteria.
Laryngotracheal calcification resulting in dyspnea and forceful breathing can be treated with bronchodilators including the short and long-acting β2-agonists, and various anticholinergics.
rickettsii infects the cells lining blood vessels throughout the body, severe manifestations of this disease may involve the respiratory system, central nervous system, gastrointestinal system, or kidneys.
While there is no universally accepted grading scale, the OMENS scale (standing for Orbital, Mandible, Ear, Nerves and Soft tissue) was developed to help describe the heterogeneous phenotype that makes up this sequence or syndrome.
In rhinoceroses Whereas the rhinoceros may suffer from less-than-adequate eyesight, it generally survives by concentrating with its superior hearing and sense of smell.
Vaginal cancers arise from vaginal tissue, with vaginal sarcomas develop from bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels or other connective or supportive tissue.
12 rue de Prony was built in 1879, in Neo-Renaissance style, by the celebrated architect Jean-Louis Pascal for the Austrian baron Jonas von Königswater, a former banker and railway owner.
GATA1-S is less active than GATA1 in controlling most of these genes including those that stimulate megakaryoblast maturation but appears more effective than GATA1 in stimulating megakaryoblast proliferation.
The loss of Golgi apparatus function affects some cells, such as those responsible for forming bone and cartilage, more than others.
Asia In Asia, the most human cases were reported in Iran, especially in Gīlān Province, on the Caspian Sea.
Iodine deficiency is one cause of underactive thyroid function at birth, called congenital hypothyroidism.
While chronic inflammation is connected to increased cancer rates, it is unclear whether fasciolosis is associated with increased cancer risk.
In such cases, the nose and mouth fail to form, or the nose grows from the roof of the mouth, obstructing airflow and resulting in suffocation shortly after birth.
Iron treatment is detrimental as it does not correct the anemia and is a cause of secondary hemochromatosis.
However, while Chlorella contains galactose and galactosamine in the cell wall, Prototheca lacks these.
Diagnosis The diagnosis is based on the combination of unusual facial features and the dysplastic or absent femurs.
People living with AIDS often have a greater burden of disease and higher mortality (30–70% at 10 weeks).
History The syndrome was named after German–American physician Helmut Paul George Seckel (1900–1960).
References Further reading Castro, Emma; Gonzalez, Luis Miguel; Rubio, Jose Miguel; Ramiro, Raquel; Girones, Nuria; Montero, Estrella (September 2014).
Western blot analysis confirmed that the BPSVgD/gB virus successfully expressed both BoHV-1 glycoproteins.
The following digital diseases of cattle might have been called "footrot": Interdigital necrobacillosis: an acute severe phlegmon of interdigital connectif tissue, especially in the rear limbs.
Genetics In terms of genetics of atransferrinemia researchers have identified mutations in the TF gene as a probable cause of this genetic disorder in affected people.
As with meat and bone meal, it is regrettable that the UK continued to export its high-risk offal between the date of the ban and the embargo imposed on its products by France, followed by the European Union, in early 1990.
One form of Seckel syndrome can be caused by mutation in the gene encoding the ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein (ATR) which maps to chromosome 3q22.1–q24.
Head pressing is usually a sign of a neurological disorder, especially of the forebrain (e.g., prosencephalon disease), or of toxicity due to liver damage, such as portosystemic shunt and hepatic encephalopathy.
Due to craniosynostosis, people with SGS may have a long and narrow head, wide spaced protruding eyes that may slant downwards, a high and narrow palate, a high and prominent forehead, a small lower jaw, and low-set posteriorly-rotated ears.
Experiments into newborn macaque monkeys have revealed that surgically fusing the eyelid for one year results in eye deterioration as the eye has not had a chance to grow and develop.
These decreases in DNA repair proteins may allow accumulation of DNA damage that trigger cell death.Nucleoporin ALADIN participates in spindle assembly.
They are also likely protected by cardiovascular adaptations associated with their flight abilities and tendency to rest upside down, such as a thin blood–gas barrier, large pulmonary capillary blood volume, large alveolar surface area, and high venous haematocrit and haemoglobin concentrations.
They have the ability to differentiate into osteoblasts or chondrocytes depending on the signalling molecules they are exposed to, giving rise to either bone or cartilage respectively.
The autoantibodies were found in patients with delayed diabetes onset, and in times of insufficient diabetes control.
Genetics This condition is due to mutations in the DNA-PKcs gene and is inheritable in an autosomal recessive fashion.
Less often, cancer of the urinary bladder is squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, or rhabdomyosarcoma.
Tumor size also affects the prognosis, in that dogs with tumors greater than five centimeters have a greater chance of lymph node metastasis.
Some other skeletal abnormalities people with SGS may experience include joint hypermobility, clubfoot, scoliosis, camptodactyly, arachnodactyly, long limbs, and a chest which appears to sink in or stick out.
The condition requires immediate treatment, which is either reducing the prolapse either amputating the exposed uterus and in severe cases euthanizing the animal, as an untreated cow can die from shock (intensive bleeding) or becomes infertile.
Its advantage is that it treats the entire nasal cavity together with the affected bone and has shown the greatest improvement in survival.
Because of the diversity of infectious microorganisms, their host ranges, and the different ecological systems in which they circulate, definitions of a natural reservoir are numerous and sometimes conflicting.
Gallibacterium anatis, formerly Pasteurella anatis, is a Gram-negative, nonmotile, penicillin-sensitive coccobacillus in the family Pasteurellaceae.
Neurodegeneration or atrophy of the nerve cells and autonomic dysfunction may be seen in the disorder; therefore, some have suggested the disorder be called 4A syndrome.
People who smoke and people with structural lung disease have a higher probability of developing chronic cavitary histoplasmosis.
In 2013, Roger Mahr retired from the commission and the operations site moved to the Research Triangle of North Carolina, where it currently resides.
However, the very high frequency of the deletion in unaffected population controls suggests that there is considerable ascertainment bias and that most people who have a neurodevelopmental condition and the deletion are likely to have an alternate cause for their symptoms.
Epidemiology In the US, human monocytotropic ehrlichiosis occurs across the south-central, southeastern, and mid-Atlantic states, regions where both the white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and its ectoparasite, Lone Star ticks (Amblyomma americanum), thrive.
External links Animal bite infections (healthAtoZ.com) (archived) VetBact entry Bacterio entry (archived)
"The efficacy of the ultraviolet C pathogen inactivation system in the reduction of Babesia divergens in pooled buffy coat platelets".
The Arqule Corporation developed the AKT1 inhibitor ARQ 092, which is being tested by a research team in the National Human Genome Research Institute at the United States National Institutes of Health in a Phase 0 dose-finding trial.
Signs symptoms in humans are coughing up blood, migration of the flukes into other body organs including the central nervous system.
Prognosis Most fetuses with triploidy do not survive to birth, and those that do usually die within days.
Streptococci are typically transmitted through close contact, though aerosols may sometimes play a role.
A new worldwide applicable definition of non-veterinary medical use included growth promotion as a legitimate aim.
Disaster Preparedness & Response Programs: Oiled Wildlife Care Network: A California program that works to rescue and rehabilitate oiled wildlife through a statewide collective of trained care providers, regulatory agencies and academic institutions.
Pterin-4 alpha-carbinolamine dehydratase deficiency (PCDD) is one of the known forms of tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency.
Metastasis occurs to regional lymph nodes, but can also be seen in the skin, brain, eye, liver, spleen, testicle, rectum and muscle.
paratuberculosis in serum of animals, and is an indicator that clinical signs of disease and death from the infection will soon follow.
Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis causes both skin and mucosal ulcers with damage primarily of the nose and mouth.
mayotimonensis bacteria are most commonly found in blood-feeding bats and those with a high ectoparasite burden.
(The significant differences indicate an interaction of toxin and pathogen on the epithelial cells of the honeybee intestine.
Advocacy activities are conducted by an advocate (for example, a family member, friend, or case manager) and fall into three basic categories.
Symptoms and signs Patients with PCDD are mostly asymptomatic, although they may have transient neurologic deficits in infancy, and sometimes hypomagnesemia and nonautoimmune diabetes mellitus in puberty.
Antibiotics that interfere with DNA synthesis, such as fluoroquinolones, have been shown to induce the Stx-bearing bacteriophage and cause increased production of toxins.
Further reading "Zadik Barak Levin syndrome | Genetic and Rare Diseases Information Center (GARD) – an NCATS Program".
Since the spectrum of phenotypic variation in affected people is quite large, Barakat syndrome probably arises as a low penetrance haploinsufficient disorder in which their genetic background plays a major role in the severity of the disease.
Oxidation of the pyrrolizidine to its respective dehydropyrrolizidine is responsible for the toxic effects.
This disorder is autosomal recessive, meaning that two unaffected parents can have a child with the disorder.
The author stresses the importance of genetic testing prior to deciding a prognosis for affected patients.
In early stages of the disease, there may be very few oocysts being shed, and a negative test does not rule out the disease.
It is estimated that the three-month case-fatality rate is 9% in high-income regions, 55% in low/middle-income regions, and 70% in sub-Saharan Africa.
See also Agriculture law Terrestrial Animal Health Code References External links Aquatic Animal Health Code access online Aquatic animal DISEASES LISTED BY THE OIE
The high level of cytokines causes sepsis-like symptoms, which are life-threatening instead of helping to fight against the infection.
Corrugated and migratory tract lesions on the inner wall of the aorta and fibrin strands attached to the nodules have also been described.
Allogeneic processed thymus tissue improved survival of people with congenital athymia, and most people treated with this product survived at least two years.
Treatment Due to craniofacial development, it is recommended that families work closely with craniofacial specialists as soon as Nager is recognized or suspected.
For vaginal yeast infection in pregnancy, topical imidazole or triazole antifungals are considered the therapy of choice owing to available safety data.
"Identification of a new serotype ofRickettsia heilongjiangensisin wild rats from Guangdong Province, China".
Treatment There is no single strategy for treatment of facial clefts, because of the large amount of variation in these clefts.
Asplenia with cardiovascular anomalies, also known as Ivemark syndrome and right atrial isomerism, is an example of a heterotaxy syndrome.
Also mass relocation efforts of moths, flea beetles and seed flies have been made in hopes that they will eat the toxic plants and help control the population of the plants.
Signs and symptoms The acronym SHORT, which stands for characteristic traits seen in the majority of patients, is incorporated into the name of the condition.
Diagnosis The condition can often be seen as malformations that can be diagnosed by a prenatal anomaly scan in the second trimester, while progressively detailed examinations can be conducted after the first day of life of the baby.
TORCH is an acronym for (T)oxoplasmosis, (O)ther Agents, (R)ubella, (C)ytomegalovirus, and (H)erpes Simplex.
He survived his initial bout with disease up to the premiere of the episode, but he died from the illness less than a year after the episode premiered, on October 23, 2015.
Their formation may result from a failure of the primordium of the coccyx to fuse to the vertebral column, leading to the independent development of a proto-rib structure.
Each of these parts of the blastocyst gives rise to different parts of the embryo; the inner cell mass gives rise to the embryo proper, while the trophectoderm and primitive endoderm give rise to extra embryonic structures that support growth of the embryo.
It is characterized by intrauterine growth restriction and postnatal dwarfism with a small head, narrow bird-like face with a beak-like nose, large eyes with down-slanting palpebral fissures, receding mandible and intellectual disability.
It is the most common disease to be known as food poisoning (though the name refers to food-borne illness in general).
Epidemiology United States Salmonellosis annually causes, per CDC estimation, about 1.35 million illnesses, 26,500 hospitalizations, and 420 deaths in the United States every year.
This needs to be coordinated with growth hormone replacement (if given) to avoid early closure of the epitheses (ends of the bones) which would reduce height.
It has been shown that cows, grazing clover pastures, have higher probability of experiencing vaginal prolapse when near the time of calving.
Occasionally, other organs are affected; called disseminated histoplasmosis, it can be fatal if left untreated.
houtenae should be classified as species of their own based on the average nucleotide identity metric.
acidominimus has been showing increased resistance to antimicrobial agents such as beta-lactams which is unusual since this species is usually sensitive to them.
Assuming that 1% have intellectual disability, for example, this would imply penetrance of ~1.3% for the deletion - i.e.
Lack of tears or alacrima is caused by the lack of production of lacrimal glands or ducts and defects in the nerves of the lacrimal gland caused by a dysfunction in the autonomic nervous system.
Bovine progressive degenerative myeloencephalopathy (BPDME), also known as weaver syndrome, is a genetic disorder of cattle, characterized by hindlimb weakness and ataxia.
although a 2021 WHO investigation concluded that the Huanan market was unlikely to be the origin due to the existence of earlier cases.
Signs and symptoms Achondrogenesis type 1B (ACG1B), one of the most serious forms of chondrodysplasia, is a perinatal-lethal condition in which a person dies either during pregnancy or soon after birth.
Orbital wall fixation of the lateral rectus muscle (muscle is disinserted and reattached to lateral orbital wall) is recommended an effective method to inactivate a lateral rectus muscle in cases of marked anomalous innervation and severe cocontraction.
The only reported case in 2010 was a false alarm from GIS Alex Baker, as proven false by the Florida Farm and Agricultural Department, and quarantine/slaughter of cattle and pigs was confirmed from Miyazaki Prefecture in Japan in June after three cows tested positive.
The cause of the infection in cattle is two species of anaerobic bacteria, Fusobacterium necrophorum and Prevotella melaninogenicus (formerly named Bacteroides melaninogenicus).
Children born with Nager may need intubation immediately after birth, requiring tube feeding and a tracheotomy tube to help with breathing.
Some sources indicate that the outbreak was likely to be rinderpest, but other suggestions have included anthrax, foot-and-mouth disease, and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia.
This disorder may be diagnosed by a urine test, a blood test, and an X-ray of the eyes or other body parts.
Genetics While Nager syndrome is thought to be most often caused by haploinsufficiency of the spliceosomal factor SF3B4, in over one third of patients tested, the SF3B4 mutation is not found.
A serious septic or toxic shock-like picture can also develop, especially in patients with impaired immunity.
Notably, bison, elk, wild boars, and deer have been identified as carriers, particularly in North America and Europe Humans can contract the disease through direct handling of infected animals, aerosol exposure, or consumption of undercooked game meat.
It can be divided into three forms, depending upon age of onset: congenital lymphedema, lymphedema praecox, and lymphedema tarda.
History The first reported cases of Aagenaes syndrome were described in a study in 1968 from the southwest of Norway.
TORCH syndrome may develop before birth, causing stillbirth, in the neonatal period, or later in life.
Field workers are also testing the effectiveness of disease suppression by trapping and removing diseased devils, with the expectation that removal of diseased devils from wild populations would decrease disease prevalence, allowing devils to survive beyond juvenile years and so to breed.
Description The pestilence was an outbreak of a pathogen, starting in 1318 and peaking in 1319–20, which resulted in the death of an estimated 62% of the bovine stock of England and Wales.
NCFAD provides scientific expertise and technologies for the prevention, detection, control and reporting of foreign animal diseases (FAD) and emerging animal diseases.
In most settings, an integrated, community-based approach to animal trypanosomiasis control is recommended, whereby the control of vectors is combined with the rational use of drugs under the overall guidance and supervision of the national veterinary services.
Diseases of primary concern are: classical swine fever, African swine fever, Newcastle disease, and notifiable avian influenza.
Both male and females have been noted to be affected by hypoparathyroidism, sensorineural deafness, and renal disease.
rhusiopathiae can cause an indolent cellulitis, more commonly in individuals who handle fish and raw meat.
Head pressing is a veterinary condition characterized by pressing the head against a wall or pushing the face into a corner for no apparent reason.
See also Supernumerary body part References External links Radiographs of a pelvic digit Lame, Edwin L.
Ataxia, which is a neurological sign and symptom made up of gross incoordination of muscle movements and is a specific clinical manifestation Diagnosis There are three different ways to diagnose Bhaskar–Jagannathan.
Further treatment depends upon the symptoms of the individual patient and may include oral surgery, plastic surgery, audiological intervention to manage hearing loss, speech therapy, and surgery on the limbs to aid with mobility limitations.
So, other indirect immunological methods of diagnosis are developed, including enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, antigen-coated dipsticks, and direct agglutination test.
It is distinguished by its elongated, spherical midsection, small chest, and exceedingly short limbs.
It usually presents with symptoms such as fever and vascular complications of unclear origin, e.g., thromboembolisms.
Dicephalic parapagus Dicephalic parapagus is a condition where two heads are side by side on a single torso, with varying degrees of twinning of organs and structures within the torso.
Malignant tumors are also subdivided histopathologically into those showing blood vessel wall invasion and those that do not.
"Specific Complement-Fixation with Shope's Fibroma Virus and its Relationship to Virus-Neutralizing Properties of Immune Sera".
Injection on the other hand was pioneered by Richard Gardner and Ralph Brinster who injected cells into blastocysts to create chimeric mice with germ lines fully derived from injected embryonic stem cells (ES cells).
Transmission was successfully halted on Zanzibar by sterile insect technique (SIT) of the vector Glossina austeni.
The Ivemark Syndrome Association, which is based in Dorset, is one of the organisations dedicated to helping patients and funding research.
Newer rodenticides may contain bromethalin which causes central nervous system signs such as seizures, muscle tremors, and depression.
Rar, V.A.; Epikhina, T.I.; Suntsova, O.V.; Kozlova, I.V.; Lisak, O.V.; Pukhovskaya, N.M.; Vysochina, N.P.; Ivanov, L.I.; Tikunova, N.V.
Disruptions in this pathway, caused by FLNB mutations, result in the bone and cartilage abnormalities associated with boomerang dysplasia.
The AAHC includes standards international trade in welfare of farmed fish and utilisation of antimicrobial agents in aquatic animals and their merchandise.
Diagnosis Diagnosis of Worth syndrome can be performed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan, which measures bone density using X-rays, along with measurement of serum alkaline phosphatase to rule out Van Buchem's disease.
Meningohydroencephalocoele (AmE: meningohydroencephalocele) is a form of meningocele (AmE)—a developmental abnormality of the central nervous system.
Challenge The domestication syndrome was reported to have appeared in the domesticated silver fox cultivated by Dmitry Belyayev's breeding experiment.
In particular, chest pain or syncope may be due to transient occlusion of the left main coronary artery by the tumor, while a heart attack or sudden cardiac death may be due to embolization of a portion of the tumor into a coronary artery.
Similarly to other single-stranded RNA viruses, the genome of BRSV has a high mutation rate, which results in great antigenetic variation.
Monstrous human births raise questions about the difference between humans and animals, and anthropologists have described varying interpretations of and behaviors toward such births.
Affected individuals typically have a normal female karyotype (46,XX), preserved ovarian function, and normal development of secondary sexual characteristics.
Whereas in the 20th century all products from the exporting nation would be affected by bans, compartmentalisation allows trade to flow from theoretically non-affected zones.
Paraveterinary workers Paraveterinary workers, including veterinary nurses, veterinary technicians, and veterinary assistants, either assist vets in their work, or may work within their own scope of practice, depending on skills and qualifications, including in some cases, performing minor surgery.
The disease has been documented in South America, the United States, Australia, Germany and Hungary.
History Streptococcus iniae was first isolated in 1972, from subcutaneous abscesses in a captive specimen of Amazon river dolphin (Inia geoffrensis) suffering from an infection known as "golf ball disease".
Abnormalities of hand and finger development have also been reported in people with this condition, including short or absent fifth finger.
Trail hunting is a legal, although controversial, activity in Great Britain in which hounds follow an artificially placed scent trail, rather than hunting live animals.
Health A 2024 UK study found a life expectancy of 11 years for the breed compared to an average of 12.7 for purebreeds and 12 for crossbreeds.
It was made from where a branch met the tree or from a young tree that was pulled up with its roots from the ground.
While a sustainable implementation of trophy and sport hunting has improved the numbers of some species, a sustainable modeled management does not always guarantee the growth of the population in targeted species.
While it had been discontinued in many parts of Australia, it has been reintroduced in the 21st century by the teachings of custodians from areas where the practice is extant in continuous unbroken tradition such as the Noongar people's cold fire.
It was established as a charity in 2003 using the proceeds of the sale from its predecessor commercial training organisation.
spinosa to be composed of multiple distinct species, others that the taxon is a single species with multiple varieties or subspecies, or that the taxon C.
History 19th century The first documented application of "women and children first" was in May 1840 when, after a lightning strike, fire broke out aboard the American packet Poland en route from New York to Le Havre.
This advantage may be lost on long hiking trips, where a lot of fuel is packed, since alcohol has less energy per gram than some other stove fuels.
Saving Londoners’ Lives (SLL) is a project with the aim of increasing the number of people in London with emergency life support (ELS) skills by training school children.
So, they set out to design a medical ID bracelet that was comfortable to wear while jogging, running, cycling, hiking, etc., along with being versatile enough to use during exercise.
They contend that greater enforcement of existing laws, rather than an outright ban, would address illegal activity without penalising those who comply with the rules.
Wounds can vary greatly in their appearance depending on wound location, injury mechanism, depth of injury, timing of onset (acute vs chronic), and wound sterility, among other factors.
Measures to reduce intracranial pressure, such as lowering the feet of the bed while keeping it flat, are also sometimes used.
Under the technical tutelage of the ISN, several organizations provide lifeguard services in the Portuguese maritime and river beaches.
For attachment most bags use webbing although some bags and bikes feature braze-ons, enabling you to bolt a bag directly to the bike.
Another complication can be stomach acid burning the inner lining of the lungs, causing aspiration pneumonia.
Description and use A waddy is a heavy pointed club constructed of carved hardwood timber; it was a traditional weapon developed by Aboriginal people in Australia.
The actual behaviour of drowning people is more passive as they lack the oxygen to take violent action and an instinctive paddling reflex occurs.
The woomera is held in one hand while the other hand places the butt of the spear on the woomera's hook; the hollow curved shape facilitates this alignment without looking.
A bag, in the context of fishing and hunting, is a quantity of fish caught or game killed, normally given as number of animals.
In his research, Hayward found that the lateral thorax and groin were important regions in regard to body heat loss.
Purpose The recovery position is designed to prevent suffocation through obstruction of the airway, which can occur in unconscious supine patients.
A feature of large country houses and sporting lodges in Britain and parts of northern Europe from the 18th century, game larders continue to be used by shooting estates.
The SOAP note originated from the problem-oriented medical record (POMR), developed nearly 50 years ago by Lawrence Weed, MD.
References Hiddins, L., Bush Tucker Field Guide, Explore Australia Publishing 2003, ISBN 1-74117-028-1 page 48 Low, T., Wild Food Plants of Australia, Angus & Robertson Publishers 1991, ISBN 0-207-16930-6 page 173
Reproduction involves a process known as sexual dichronism, in which the adult female controls the sex allocation of her offspring in order to produce males and females at different times.
Drag hunting or draghunting is a form of equestrian sport where mounted riders hunt the trail of an artificially laid scent with hounds.
During the party's six-month drift on a gradually-shrinking ice-floe, Hendrik and the Canadian Inuk Ebierbing managed to provide food for the entire party; they were eventually picked up by a sealer in April 1873.
The collaborative is led by representatives of NOLS Wilderness Medicine, SOLO Wilderness Medicine, Wilderness Medicine Training Center International, Wilderness Medical Associates International, Aerie Backcountry Medicine, and Desert Mountain Medicine.
Elimination of powdered medical gloves With the availability of non-powdered medical gloves that were easy to don, calls for the elimination of powdered gloves became louder.
The 3612th Combat Crew Training Squadron was organized in 1971 and assigned to the 3636th Combat Crew Training Group at Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington.
It was built out from the wall of the kitchen, in the form of an octagon, having windows on every side, except that formed by the kitchen wall, and in this was the door.
In the epic Ramayana, Dasharatha, the father of Rama, is said to have the ability to hunt in the dark.
It is a graceful, glabrous tree with linear to very narrowly elliptic phyllodes, spherical heads of cream-coloured to pale yellow flowers, and firmly papery, flat pods.
The breeding program was discontinued as the dogs would attack drowning victims instead of saving them.
However, 44 crew and passengers managed to survive on a small island by eating eggs and geese, albatrosses, and other seabirds.
This can lead to an obstruction of the airway, restricting the flow of air and preventing gaseous exchange, which then causes hypoxia, which is life-threatening.
This maneuver still presents dangers for victims with spinal injuries or osteoporosis, which is why victims should only be moved if the situation absolutely requires it (such as in case of fire or nearby high-speed traffic).
Gently lifting the upper body of the victim by the grabbed arm and supporting them with the rescuer's thigh, the victim can then be dragged backwards.
At one point, he was given directions to a "refreshment stand" where he would have to "tap his own keg".
This party endured a remarkable six-month drift on a gradually-shrinking ice-floe, kept alive only by Ipirvik and Hans's hunting skills; the entire party was rescued by a sealer in April 1873.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Diaphragm pacing is a technique used by persons with spinal cord injuries who are on a mechanical ventilator to aid with breathing, speaking, and overall quality of life.
In 1725 Ashton's "Memorial" - a short recollection of his adventures - was published with the help of his minister.
The usual active compound is ammonium carbonate—a colorless-to-white, crystalline solid ((NH4)2CO3).
He wore Japanese clothes, which did not cover his throat, even when it was freezing cold, despite Russian people's recommendation that he should have covered his throat.
Falconry is the hunting of wild animals in their natural state and habitat by means of a trained bird of prey.
In the setting of lower airway aspiration, patients may develop pneumonia like symptoms such as fever, chest pain, foul smelling sputum, or blood in sputum (hemoptysis).
"Royalty and Opposition to Blood Sports in Twentieth-Century Britain: From Imperial Spoils to Wildlife Conservation?".
References External links Masters of the Draghounds and Bloodhounds Association website, mdbassociation.co.uk, retrieved 24 August 2017.
At a ceremony at the Seamen's Church Institute of New York and New Jersey in New York on 16 July 1943, the Acting British Consul told Lim that King George VI was to award him the British Empire Medal.
Of the nine Elaeocarpus names Roxburgh invented for the plants in the Calcutta garden, Don dismissed all of them as impossible to identify and probably just synonyms of species which had been described before by others, except for E.
Vapor also rises from the center of the stove and burns when passing through the ring of flame as long as a pot is over the stove.
The nutritional content of the bunya nut is: 40% water, 40% complex carbohydrates, 9% protein, 2% fat, 0.2% potassium, 0.06% magnesium.
The 22nd Training Squadron is a United States Air Force unit stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington.
Upon the urging of his crewmen, Choe changed his clothes in a ritual fashion in preparation for death, although he prayed to the heavens to spare him and his crew, asking what sins they had committed to deserve this fate.
The device is used as a test for astronauts in the novel The Calculating Stars by Mary Robinette Kowal.
Common sizes include 5 cm × 5 cm (2 in × 2 in), 7.5 cm × 7.5 cm (3 in × 3 in), and 10 cm × 10 cm (4 in × 4 in).
In Tanzania, it is estimated that a safari hunter spends fifty to one hundred times that of the average ecotourist.
A multiaccess key (SpiKey) is available as a free application for identifying the Triodia of the Pilbara (28 species and one hybrid).
While there is no doubt the manufacture and form of the toas are Aboriginal and that they mythologically encode place names, it is suggested that they were made at the mission in response to an easy supply of surplus gypsum and the active interest of an inquiring German missionary.
The Mexican government, particularly the states of Sonora and Chihuahua, introduced a bounty system in 1836, offering rewards for Apache scalp.
A waddy, nulla-nulla, leangle or boondi is an Aboriginal Australian hardwood club or hunting stick for use as a weapon or as a throwing stick for hunting animals.
Within Australia, the plant has been documented throughout Western Australia, the Northern Territory, and large proportions of inland/central Australia.
One such expedition was on Cinque Ports, captained by Thomas Stradling, under the overall command of William Dampier.
ISBN 978-1-4000-3110-8 (in English) "The Ashley-Smith explorations and the discovery of a central route to the Pacific, 1822-1829 [microform] : with the original journals : Dale, Harrison Clifford, b.
Roland Mueser, in Long-Distance Hiking, surveyed hikers on the Appalachian Trail and found that this stove was the only design with a zero-percent failure rate.
It was originally described as Pogonolobus reticulatus in 1858, before being transferred to its current name in 1867.
Elite training of Cliff Leaders in the late 1950s required rocky landings from various small craft (kayaks, Zodiacs and other motorized assault craft) often in heavy seas onto the Cornish coast, and rapid tactical ascents and descent of the vertical faces.
They are used to add luggage capacity to your bike in a low-profile way without impeding on the ability to pedal and to distribute weight across the bike.
The plant has proved adaptable in cultivation, being used in amenity horticulture and bushfood plantings.
This is often due to various components of life saving within a nation being focused on by separate organisations.
The species Triodia wiseana is used for building shelters; bunched together it is used for trapping fish against creek beds.
Caper leaves, which are hard to find outside of Greece or Cyprus, are used particularly in salads and fish dishes.
One person was purported to survive seven days in the desert, six of these without water, without suffering heat stroke, as the temperature reached no higher than 103.2 °F (39.6 °C) during his ordeal.
There is a HUET system for the Lynx which seats eight, and one for the larger helicopters which seats twelve.
Then, a long, thick piece of kindling is driven into the ground at an angle, so that it overhangs the tinder pile.
chippendalei is consumed by first splitting the fruit, scraping the centre out and eating the outer flesh as the seeds and surrounding placenta are bitter.
The concept was introduced on a non-statutory basis in June 1945, when a committee was formed with the same members who would later form Comhairle na Míre Gaile.
On 4 July 2005, Elastoplast launched a £1.1 million advertising campaign which introduced brand heroes called "the Plastermen", which had helped advertise the newly launched SilverHealing plasters.
As in other countries, the dolphins are hunted for their meat for local consumption, and, as explained below, the Malaitans have experimented with live capture for export.
The limb is then immobilised by prompting the casualty not to move, or where possible by applying a splint or sling.
The most successful breed to come out of the programme was the Black Russian Terrier, which gained international recognition in 1984; it derived from a combination of 14 different breeds, including the Moscow Water Dog in the later stages of its development.
Freshwater fish There are many small to medium freshwater fish farms throughout Australia, growing a wide range of species including Murray cod, silver perch, jade perch and eels.
Camouflage clothing can be worn largely for its symbolic significance rather than for fashion, as when, during the late 1960s and early 1970s in the United States, anti-war protestors often ironically wore military clothing during demonstrations against the American involvement in the Vietnam War.
The 1889 book 'The Useful Native Plants of Australia’ records that Indigenous Australians of Queensland referred to this tree as "Oringorin".
Popularity United States According to an infographic produced by Red Rover Camping and based on data from the 2014 American Camper Report published by the Coleman Company, Inc.
Over time, it achieved a cult status, often referenced in Indian pop culture as a metaphor for coping with figurative “burns” or emotional setbacks.
Human-hunting is the hunting and killing of human beings for other people's revenge, pleasure, entertainment, sports, or sustenance.
The 22nd flew Douglas A-1 Skyraiders and was assigned to the 56th Special Operations Wing at Nakhon Phanom Royal Thai Air Force Base.
They eventually were appointed as his assistants (as Aboriginal trackers) and became his good friends.
By following a stream, she eventually found shelter in a hut of local hunters and woodcutters, who found her and took her by canoe back to civilisation.
Cooling of the respiratory tract may also activate cholinergic receptors, which can induce bronchoconstriction and mucus secretion, further narrowing the airway.
The fifteen survivors from the two ships that went down were set upon by a contingent of Cossacks under Andrei Shtinnikov: thirteen were killed, Gonza and Sōza enslaved.
The mulga apple is in fact a combination of plant and animal; the insect gall grows inside the wood of the mulga tree (Acacia aneura).
Palmer, an American dentist and recreational game hunter, reportedly paid US$50,000 to a Zimbabwean professional hunter-guide, Theo Bronkhorst, to enable him to kill a lion.
There were miniatures of all four types (two classes each for sea and land, with the gold awards believed to be gilt).
Position HELP is taught as part of the curriculum in Australia, North America, and Ireland for lifeguard and boating safety training.
Those who participate in lifesaving activities as a volunteer are called lifesavers, and those who are employed to professionally perform lifesaving activities are called lifeguards.
The ship left on October 11, 1832, but was caught in a storm and blown off-course far out in the Pacific Ocean.
Today, it is the recommended first-aid procedure in Australia for treating snake and funnel web spider bites.
Because it was built up using at least two species, this name is a synonym pro parte of both species, according to the botanist M.J.E.
At the Point of a Cutlass, ForeEdge (2014) ISBN 978-1611685152 (online information) Leslie, Edward E..
American response to the PAVN operation virtually ground to a halt as air resources were diverted to support the recovery, and for a few days defense of the northern border area was second in priority to rescuing Hambleton.
Locations References External links Wholesale Sports Outdoor Outfitters Alberta Outdoorsmen BC Wildlife Federation BC's friendliest outdoor forum AHEIA United Farmers of Alberta Co-op Ltd.
Wearing a personal flotation device allows a person to draw their knees to their chest and arms to their sides, while still remaining able to breathe.
The task is to dynamically determine the current location and the time, distance and direction to destination.
This skill set was necessary for exposing all trainees during the last week of the commando (green beret) course.
In the Kimberley region of Western Australia, the men wore pearl shells as a pubic covering, which they call Riji, and which are considered extremely sacred.
The effectiveness of stop, drop and roll may be further enhanced by combining it with other firefighting techniques, including the use of a fire extinguisher, dousing with water, or beating the flames on oneself (blankets are commonly used for that).
Casualties Union, is a British registered charity (1200120) that was founded on 22 November 1942 by Eric Claxton OBE who later received an OBE for his services to civil defence.
(Synthetic rope should be avoided since it produces pollutants when it burns.) Then the larger kindling is arranged above the smaller kindling, taking care not to collapse the tipi.
As Captain of the Guard (bodyguard), he was selected to serve Sir Thomas Gates during his term as Governor of Virginia.
Due to this, she temporarily had to place Bennett in the Jesse Lee Home for Children, which could better care for his tuberculosis.
First aid done correctly should help reduce the patient's level of pain and calm them down during the evaluation and treatment process.
Burning spinifex produces a strong black smoke, and smoke signals made in this way were an effective means of communication with families and groups over substantial distances.
After cutting an escape hatch, they set the emergency position-indicating radiobeacon (EPIRB), convinced that they would be rescued a few days later.
Dillybags are mainly designed and used by women to gather and transport food, and are most commonly found in the northern parts of Australia.
The term for inferior substitute in German would be Surrogat, which is cognate to the English word "surrogate".
Stefansson remained behind to fundraise for another exploration to search for a continent north of Wrangel Island.
During the First World War in Germany and Austria-Hungary, people succumbed to sickness from the consumption of ersatz goods.
Triodia is known as tjanpi (grass) in central Australia, and have several traditional uses amongst the Aboriginal Australian peoples of the region.
Trapping has since been expanded to encompass pest control, wildlife management, the pet trade, and zoological specimens.
In 1966, the US Government, through the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, gave the Department of Transportation (DOT) responsibility for creating a national Emergency Medical Services System (EMS).
Survival training is used to teach survival skills or as a form of recreational activity in which individuals are generally challenged to sustain their basic needs, such as food, water and shelter, in an unpopulated area, with little or only natural resources.
She sailed usually from San Francisco and Vancouver to Melbourne and Newcastle, Australia carrying wood and back to Valparaíso carrying coal from Australia.
The hunts were held in the Roman Forum, the Saepta, and in the Circus Maximus, though none of these venues offered protection to the crowd from the wild animals on display.
Soft bikepacking bags typically fall into the following categories: Seat bag: Affixed to the seat above the rear wheel Frame bag: Fits inside the frame triangle.
In addition to its effects on ion channels, N2O may act to imitate nitric oxide (NO) in the central nervous system, and this may be related to its analgesic and anxiolytic properties.
He chose not to follow his father into trade, but instead became a soldier and joined a company of English foot-soldiers to fight the Spanish in the Netherlands.
A trader could collect some 3,000 Dutch pounds of the unsorted stones at a port in Java, Madura or Bali for only some 60 silver real, the merchant must then sort his cargo, retaining only the small and medium stones, and throwing out the rest.
During World War II all members of Casualties Union were also members of the Civil Defence, but after the dissolution of the Civil Defence and subsequently the SCCDRS in 1945, the necessity of Casualties Union came into question.
The abalone feed on seaweed that has grown naturally on the habitats, with the ecosystem enrichment of the bay also resulting in growing numbers of dhufish, pink snapper, wrasse, and Samson fish, among other species.
Uses and advantages This technique is useful for the simple splitting of wood for kindling, to access dry wood within a wet log, and for the production of shingles, slats, or boards.
If the data is not found there, it is retrieved from the system's slower memory, which can be about ten times slower than the cache's static RAM.
The face is covered with their own hands to protect the face from any flame (this can be remembered as an additional "Cover" step).
It was moved to one of the promenade's sunken gardens following renovation work, where it remains today.
Special precautions were taken to prevent the animals from escaping these venues, such as the erection of barriers and the digging of ditches.
It also comprises wilderness survival, fieldcraft, and Shinobi-aruki (silent movement steps and leaps).
Broodstock is regularly collected from the wild through diving operations and forms the basis of the hatchery operations and genetic diversity.
James Dillon proposed that the Council of State should be the competent body rather than a new committee.
EWS scores give a standardised classification to the degree of physiological abnormality, with higher scores representing a higher risk of deterioration.
It is probably one of the first methods of hunting used by primitive tribes, and even used by animals, such as African lions, where male lions show themselves with aid of their smell and roar to spook antelope towards the position where the more agile lioness is concealed.
In popular culture Their story is told in the 2015 New Zealand television film Abandoned, starring Dominic Purcell and Peter Feeney, along with Owen Black and Greg Johnson.
Rautek maneuver A person applying the Rautek maneuver brings the victim into a sitting position, making sure that both legs are free.
The competition is not binding on the Kangaroo Industry Association, which has not moved to adopt the new name in any official capacity.
In 2014, it was reported that the course was "one of the hardest things that any air force flyer will do".
See also Safety yellow Construction site safety Fire engine red International orange List of colors School bus yellow Spectral color == Notes ==
A Federal law, the Airborne Hunting Act (AHA), was passed in 1971 with the goal of eliminating aerial hunting, that is, shooting wildlife from planes or helicopters.
In areas where appropriate spinifex species grew, many hunting and working implements benefited from the use of spinifex gum or resin as a hafting adhesive: Spinifex resin was often a crucial ingredient in spear-making, being used to fasten the head onto the shaft.
As well as ocean racing, surfskis are becoming increasingly popular as a versatile racing craft for open class races that take place in sheltered bays, lakes and rivers.
Working by the sea and a keen and strong swimmer Wheatland took to the waters to rescue bathers who had got into difficulties, the first rescue being recorded when she was still only aged 16.
Carissa spinarum, the conkerberry or bush plum, is a large shrub of the dogbane family (Apocynaceae), widely distributed in tropical regions of Africa, Southern Asia, Australia, and various islands of the Indian Ocean.
Awards made Notable recipients Arturo Fanconi (1945) John Leslie Urquhart (1905) References External links Albert Medal and Edward Medal George Cross and Albert Medal at Sea in World War 2
This maneuver allows unconscious people to be moved from areas of danger with limited effort on part of the rescuer, even if they are much smaller than the victim.
While they are quite closely related to tomatoes (Solanum lycopersicum), they might be even closer relatives of the eggplant (S.
Surfskiers will paddle regularly, at high intensity, often in races, and as often as possible to ride waves.
Bush medicine comprises traditional medicines used by Indigenous Australians, being Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.
I discovered that many people, obviously, carry mobile phones and we were using them to discover who they were.
In a wilderness survival situation, fire can provide a sense of home in addition to being an essential energy source.
Results showed significant reductions in blood loss, rate of emergency hysterectomy and incidence of morbidity and mortality.
Types Different types of camping may be named after their form of transportation, such as canoe camping, car camping, RVing, and backpacking, including ultralight backpacking.
Copland's Fanfare is one of a series of 18 commissioned by Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra conductor Eugene Goossens in 1942–43, each to open a concert.
In some early dugout canoes, Aboriginal people would not make the bottoms of the canoes smooth, but would instead carve "ribbing" into the vessel.
A humane restraint is necessary to ensure that the pet does not harm the owner and other people around.
Variations Reinforced skin closures: These are sterile skin closure strips that are made of a porous, non-woven backing coated with a pressure-sensitive, hypoallergenic adhesive and reinforced with polyester filaments for added strength.
The project was revealed to be a social experiment used for marketing research purposes on 31 May 2017.
Traditional woodcraft has particular importance in American folklore, especially that relating to the early American frontier.
The spelling stabilised around the mid-nineteenth century, partly to help distinguish it from the Arabic - Lebanese word wadi, a dry water course.
1 Flying Training School at RAF Shawbury, which takes 24 weeks and around 60 hours of flying; these helicopter pilots then end up at the Search and Rescue Training Unit of 202 Squadron if streamed to fly either Merlin HM2 or Wildcat HMA2.
History The squadron was first organized as the 22nd Special Operations Squadron and operated in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War for two years from October 1968 until September 1970.
The small village of Grimsby grew to become the largest fishing port in the world by the mid 19th century.
Survival trainings are mostly held in forests, mountain ranges and hilly areas, such as the Alps and Scandinavia.
Urgent medical care can be vital for personnel in conflicts and wars, and many countries have similar practices.
Safety orange is the color usually used in the United States for traffic cones (starting in 1961), stanchions, barrels, and other construction zone marking devices.
Glue traps A glue trap (also known as sticky trap, adhesive trap, or glue board) is a flat panel or enclosed structure, often baited, that ensnare insects, birds, or other animals with a non-drying adhesive substance.
Furthermore, as late as the 1979 Sino-Vietnamese war most Chinese soldiers were armed with another weapon, the Type 56 carbine (an SKS copy), and were soon after re-equipped with the Type 81 assault rifle, followed later by the QBZ-95 and QBZ-03, all of which are unrelated to the Kalashnikov design.
Food Many people have gone for over 40 days during fasting and have survived in favorable circumstances.
Left on too long, it can engage with wound tissue and wound secretions when drier, and be more difficult to remove.
At the end of that year, the English decided to refresh their supplies on the largest of the uninhabited Juan Fernández Islands.
The cadre has a permanent staff of mountain and arctic warfare instructors and trains mountain leaders for employment in the formations of the corps.
They originally tested personnel via a written test and a hands-on test, to ensure that service members were competent when it came to saving other troops' lives.
In the beginning he seems to have eaten only fruit, because he only had his hands to collect food; he could not kill any animal.
Inverted flags For hundreds of years inverted national flags were commonly used as distress signals.
Subsequent postings were to the lighthouses at Gabo Island (1878), Cape Schanck (1884), Cape Otway (1887), and finally to Point Lonsdale Lighthouse.
Care is usually required because of the poisonous and caustic nature of the sap, however in some locales toxicity is considered low, at least for part of the year.
Overhanging structures or plants that shade the bottles must be avoided, as they reduce both illumination and heating.
The heads are 4–5 mm (0.16–0.20 in) in diameter with 30 to 35 densely clustered, cream-coloured to pale yellow flowers.
Both hands then grab one of the lower arms of the victim with all fingers and the thumbs being placed on top of that lower arm and parallel to each other (so called monkey grip, [1]).
A fire broke out, and the aircraft suffered structural failure, with the right wing and part of the left wing separating in flight.
A few days later the Englishman "went out but he never returned." The Englishman left behind a knife, gunpowder, tobacco and more.
Thus the rescued Japanese sailors were first taken to Bodega Bay near Fort Ross, then to Sitka, the capital of Russian America.
These laws aim to encourage people to help in urgent situations without fear of legal repercussions.
The pirate articles of captains Bartholomew Roberts and John Phillips specify marooning as a punishment for cheating one's fellow pirates or other offences.
Uses Hundreds of years ago this plant was an important article of international commerce, specifically, the burl-like stones containing the seeds.
Coolamon is an anglicised version of the Wiradjuric word guliman used to describe an Australian Aboriginal carrying vessel.
He was married to Lucy Irvine in 1981 as a condition for residency on Tuin Island; they soon separated.
On 1 July 1875, while on a voyage from Dundee in the United Kingdom to Otago, New Zealand, the ship was wrecked off the Crozet Islands.
His deeds were also recorded in The Illustrated London News (1858) and he was included in a book called Everyday Heroes published by SPCK in 1889 which aimed to inspire its readers and promote good deeds or, at least, proper behaviour.
Islamic theological schools The doctrine first reached prominence in the Islamic theological schools of Iraq, especially in Basra.
Scholars debate New Testament passages such as Romans 8–11, with interpretations ranging from predestination being corporate or service-based, to God choosing some individuals for salvation while leaving others to reprobation.
It is possible to hold, for example, that the facts of the world determine which statements are true and to also hold that the world (and its facts) is but a collection of ideas in the mind of some supreme being.
In modern philosophy, the distinction between abstract and concrete was explored by Immanuel Kant and G.
B series From a second point of view, events can be ordered according to a different series of temporal positions by way of two-term relations that are asymmetric, irreflexive and transitive (forming a strict partial order): "earlier than" (or precedes) and "later than" (or follows).
However sadistic punishment just for the sake of revenge doesn't make sense, according to open individualism, since it just causes more suffering for you to experience.
In the 1983 paper in which he first used the term, he used as an example the sentence, "Pain is the firing of C fibers", pointing out that while it might be valid in a physiological sense, it does not help us to understand how pain feels.
Along with moderation of one's desires and the virtues, he also considered the acquisition of friendship to be central to this goal of living pleasantly, considering it the greatest means to secure happiness.
Transcendental anatomy, also known as philosophical anatomy, was a form of comparative anatomy that sought to find ideal patterns and structures common to all organisms in nature.
Elizabeth of Bohemia's objection is part of the "pairing problem", a point raised by the philosopher Jaegwon Kim that Amy Kind also mentions in her book.
An example for a failure to follow higher-order volitions is the drug addict who takes drugs even though they would like to quit taking drugs.
In the second verse or sutra of the fourth chapter, the mark of the existence of the ultimate atoms is mentioned.
History, therefore, that which is precisely in time, only materializes in the act of those who consider it as eternal history.
It is described as reaching a new conclusion and truth from one or more observations and previous truths by applying reason.
Importance Physical causal closure is especially important when considering dualist theories of mind.
Quine makes the case that the empirical study of physics has furnished apparently credible grounds for replacing classical logic by quantum logic, rather as Newtonian physics gave way to Einsteinian physics.
Philippe Kruchten in his article "Architectural Blueprints—The “4+1” View Model of Software Architecture" used a model composed of five main views to address large architectures, essentially this is a view-based separation of concerns, where each view focus on a different aspect of the architecture.
Though separate from the historical debate regarding the status of universals, there has been significant debate regarding the conceptual character of experience since the release of Mind and World by John McDowell in 1994.
Are these the whimsicalities of chance, or the suggestive effects of the name, as Stekel seems to suggest, or are they "meaningful coincidences"?
But few of the British idealists adopted Hegel's philosophy wholesale, and his most significant writings on logic seem to have found no purchase whatsoever in their thought.
Unlike Empedocles' four "root elements" and similar to Democritus' multitude of atoms (yet not physical in nature), these homoioneroi are used by Anaxagoras to explain the multiplicity in reality and becoming.
Analysis The epistemological dictum appears in Hitchens's 2007 book God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything.
One of the early 'ordinary language' works, Gilbert Ryle's The Concept of Mind, attempted to demonstrate that dualism arises from a failure to appreciate that mental vocabulary and physical vocabulary are simply different ways of describing one and the same thing, namely human behaviour.
Types Vaisheshika According to Vaisheshika, padārtha or objects of experience can be divided as bhāva (real existence) and abhāva (non-existence).
It is said that the text Upaskara might had been composed before 1462 AD by the Indian philosopher Sankara Mishra.
However, it is now claimed by many contemporary analytic philosophers, that the Vienna Circle misunderstood certain sections of the Tractatus.
When the affix term vat is added after the word akāraṇa, then the compound term akāraṇavat takes the form of possessive adjective.
Wooden iron (German: hölzernes Eisen) is a polemical term often used in philosophical rhetoric to describe the impossibility of an opposing argument.
Specifically, survivors' literature attests to the question (and impossibility) of authentic representation, even as scholars widely acknowledge the worthiness of giving voice and agency to survivors and to victims of genocide.
As media are typically supportive of the social system and institutions, as well as dependent upon them for gaining access to and gathering material that will be useful to the public, they often reflect the power structure of the community.
The Stoics were pantheists, beginning with Zeno of Citium and culminating in the emperor-philosopher Marcus Aurelius.
The concept of the butterfly effect has since been used outside the context of weather science as a broad term for any situation where a small change is supposed to be the cause of larger consequences.
Russo writes that even after the theory was politically discredited, it continued to have an impact during the Cultural Revolution.
Importantly, Harry Frankfurt popularized what are now known as Frankfurt counterexamples to argue for semicompatibilism, the view that, determinism is compatible with moral responsibility, regardless of its compatibility with free will.
The subject was famously debated by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and a supporter of Newton's in the Leibniz–Clarke correspondence.
Although Descartes' duality of natural substances may have echoes in modern physics (Bose and Fermi statistics) no agreed account of 'interpretation' has been formulated.
Democritus, along with Leucippus and Epicurus, proposed the earliest views on the shapes and connectivity of atoms.
quiddity Haecceity may be defined in some dictionaries as simply the "essence" of a thing, or as a simple synonym for quiddity or hypokeimenon.
Progressive grading of wholes Smuts suggests "rough and provisional" summary of the progressive grading of wholes that comprise holism is as follows: Material structure, e.g.
॥ तस्य कार्यं लिङ्गम् ॥ ॥ tasya kāryaṃ liṅgam ॥According to the second Sutra of the fourth chapter, the mark of the existence of the ultimate atoms is inferred from their effects.
Although the "Freudian slip" is considered the most popularized example of psychic determinism from Freud's work, this concept of determinism is not the only one.
The earliest thinkers identifiable as subjective idealists were certain members of the Yogācāra school of Indian Buddhism, who reduced the world of experience to a stream of subjective perceptions.
The roots of political naturalism may be found in positive visions of natural law (like John Locke's and Jean-Jacques Rousseau's, and even in the Founding Fathers of the United States.
Customers could now buy an astonishing variety of goods, all in one place, and shopping became a popular leisure activity.
...some things happen of necessity (ἀνάγκη), others by chance (τύχη), others through our own agency (παρ’ ἡμᾶς).
For Boole, the essential first step in the process of conceiving of a proposition preliminary to making a judgement of its truth or falsity – or even using it in a deduction, however hypothetically – was to conceive of the universe of discourse.
Vincent Conitzer argues that A-theory is related to Benj Hellie's vertiginous question and Caspar Hare's ideas of egocentric presentism and perspectival realism.
This type of theory attempts to posit a relationship between thoughts or statements on one hand, and things or facts on the other.
Determinism Determinism is the philosophical proposition that every event, including human cognition and behaviour, decision and action, is causally determined by an unbroken chain of events.
is of decisive importance and I take it as the characteristic principle of physicalism or materialism." Definition Physical causal closure has stronger and weaker formulations.
"The Adventures of Bulukiya", a tale from the One Thousand and One Nights (Arabian Nights), depicted a cosmos consisting of different worlds, some larger than Earth and each with their own inhabitants.
Louis, Missouri, which was intended to be a safe and idealistic complex yet became a center for rampant crime and vandalism.
There remains a literature in philosophy and science, albeit a much-contested one, that asserts evidence for emergence in various domains, which would undermine the principle of causal closure.
A paramāṇu is that which is indestructible, indivisible, and has a special kind of dimension, called "small" (aṇu).
There is ambiguity in the language as regards referring to the cat as a concept, and cat as an object.
The increase of order inside an organism is more than paid for by an increase in disorder outside this organism by the loss of heat into the environment.
A simple logical proof of the impossibility of Laplace's idea was advanced in 2012 by Iegor Reznikoff, who posits that the demon cannot predict his own future memory.
But after teaching English at Princeton for two years, his contract was not renewed, and he returned to Harvard for graduate study and worked as Santayana's assistant.
Neutral monism has no room for the central feature of the dual-aspect theory: the mental and physical aspects, sides, or properties that characterize the underlying entities of dual-aspect theory.
On the other hand, the character of being "past, present or future" of the events "E" or "F" does change with time.
Similarly if dreaming involves visual and auditory images in our minds it seems reasonable to think there are visual and auditory images, or sense-data, when we are awake and perceiving things.
ISBN 978-0826350725 External links Media related to Yanantin at Wikimedia Commons "Yanantin and Masintin in the Andean World: Complementary Dualism in Modern Peru," Hillary S.
As explained by the Indian philosopher Nagarjuna, there is a non-dual relationship, that is, there is no absolute separation, between conventional and ultimate truth, as well as between samsara and nirvana.
When we speak of time in this way, we are speaking in terms of a series of positions which run from the remote past through the recent past to the present, and from the present through the near future all the way to the remote future.
Simona Poustilnik, Biological Ideas of Bogdanov's Tektology presented at the Int'l Conf.: Origins of Organization Theory in Russia and the Soviet Union, University of East Anglia (Norwich), Jan.
In Vaisesika atomism, atoms first combine into tryaṇukas (triads) and Dvyaṇuka (dyad) before they aggregate into bodies of a kind that can be perceived.
On Lewis's account, the actual world is identified with the physical universe of which we are all a part.
It would be quite unreasonable to excuse Jones for his action, or to withhold the praise to which it would normally entitle him, on the basis of the fact that he could not have done otherwise.
Instead, Smith believed that theodemocracy would be freely chosen by all, whether or not they were Latter Day Saints.
Rand argued that limited intellectual property monopolies being granted to certain inventors and artists on a first-to-file basis are moral because she considered all property as fundamentally intellectual.
According to the bloodline theory, the defining factor in a person's class standing was their family's class position.
Emotiv Systems, an Australian electronics company, has demonstrated a headset that can be trained to recognize a user's thought patterns for different commands.
They exist nowhere in time or space, but neither do they exist in the mind, nor in the pleroma of matter; rather, matter is said to "participate" in form (μεθεξις, methexis).
Thus statements about the future (e.g., "it will rain tomorrow") are either true or false when spoken today.
Potential characteristics that may be observed are demographics, past choices and real-time decisions that a customer makes.
Thoughts on the True Estimation of Living Forces (German: Gedanken von der wahren Schätzung der lebendigen Kräfte) is Immanuel Kant's first published work, published in 1749.
France The Renaissance party (formerly La République En Marche!) founded by President Emmanuel Macron has been described as a centrist party with a catch-all nature.
In 1992, a petition organised by Geoffrey Hodgson, Uskali Mäki, and Deirdre McCloskey was published as a paid advertisement in The American Economic Review.
External links « Deuil à venir, dieu à venir », Critique, janvier-février 2006, no 704-705 (revised edition, Éditions Ionas, 2016).
He ponders the nature of death and summarizes that there are two major schools of thought on the afterlife.
By the later half of the 18th century, measurement errors were well understood, and it was known that they could either be reduced by better equipment or accounted for by statistical error models.
In more modern contexts, haecceitism is sometimes discussed in relation to issues of the nature of transworld identity in metaphysics.
Clarke, along with the posthumous naming of the carbon allotrope "buckminsterfullerene", synergetics remains an off-beat subject, ignored for decades by most traditional curricula and academic departments, a fact Fuller himself considered evidence of a dangerous level of overspecialization.
While there is little external literary or archaeological evidence, the historical context for the Eilu v'eilu sugya seems to be that Beit Hillel was strong but not always the defining halakhic decision.
In one recent experiment it was possible to identify which single image was being seen from a set of 120.
Synergetics : an introduction : nonequilibrium phase transitions and self-organization in physics, chemistry, and biology.
They also devised a course entitled "Bubbles, Panics and Crashes: an Introduction to Alternative Theories of Crisis", which the economic department rejected.
The observer makes the error in assuming that the image he or she receives correctly represents the oar and has not been distorted in some way.
It is hard to say how they can affect our sensory experiences, and yet we seem to agree on a wide range of claims about them.
A genealogy of the consequence argument starts with two of Van Inwagen’s influences, Keith Lehrer and Carl Ginet, both of whom he acknowledged in his 1975 essay “The Incompatibility of Free Will and Determinism”.
During these events, the "Cross Brotherhoods" were activated in various schools, and some of their members took up arms against Antonescu's more conservative faction.
From 2011 all those applying for or renewing driving licences online in the UK are required to state whether they wished to donate their organs.
To state an example: The reason one may be motivated to consume alcohol after work is determined by several factors: (1) Intention.
In a deterministic system, every action, or cause, produces a reaction, or effect, and every reaction, in turn, becomes the cause of subsequent reactions.
Neither compatibilism nor hard determinism are the whole story, according to Smilansky, and there exists an ultimate perspective in which some parts of compatibilism are valid and some parts of hard determinism are valid.
Before Kant, some thinkers, such as Leibniz, had come to the conclusion that space and time were not things, but only the relations among things.
Other uses Gerard Manley Hopkins drew on Scotus, whom he called "of reality the rarest-veined unraveller", to construct his poetic theory of inscape.
Arguments against molecularism According to Fodor and Lepore, there is a quantificational ambiguity in the molecularist's typical formulation of his thesis: someone can believe P only if she believes a sufficient number of other propositions.
Dialetheism is not a system of formal logic; instead, it is a thesis about truth that influences the construction of a formal logic, often based on pre-existing systems.
In the Vedas and later sutras, the meaning of the word satya evolved into an ethical concept about truthfulness.
Millikan's view differs from other teleosemantic views in myriad ways, but perhaps its most unusual characteristic is its distinction between the mechanisms that produce mental representations from those that consume mental representations.
The Belmont Forum elaborated that a transdisciplinary approach is enabling inputs and scoping across scientific and non-scientific stakeholder communities and facilitating a systemic way of addressing a challenge.
He claimed that humans thus must give up aspiring to do good in their fallen state and by their own power, as only by this could salvation be formed.
Kabay compares the Pyrrhonian skeptic to the figurative trivialist and claims that as the skeptic reportedly attains a state of imperturbability through a suspension of belief, the trivialist may attain such a state through an abundance of belief.
When these edges overlap in a light spectrum, green results; when they overlap in a dark spectrum, magenta results.
For example, it seems to correct that N(a fair coin does not lands heads) and N(a fair coin does not lands heads) but it isn’t correct to say that N(a fair coin does not land heads and a fair coin does not land tails) because someone could have tossed the coin.
Among other things, this paper outlined a theory of predication involving three universal categories that Peirce continued to apply in philosophy and elsewhere for the rest of his life.
It is often raised in discussion as an opposite position to both philosophical realism and anti-realism.
The adherents of these positions disagree on which part of the actual world is the foundation supporting modal truths.
Kāma is central in early Buddhist cosmology, doctrine, and in the program of monastic discipline (vinaya).
The dualist school of Dvaita Vedanta emerged in the 13th century through the works of Madhva, who argued for a fundamental difference between the independent reality of God and the dependent reality of other entities, including souls and matter.
He also considered "unegoistic actions" and "unegoistic drives" to be examples of wooden iron (see Notebooks Summer-Fall 1884 26[224]).
Transdisciplinary research Transdisciplinary research connotes research strategies that cross disciplinary and beyond disciplinary (social knowledge) boundaries to create a holistic approach.
In addition to kin selection and direct reciprocity, he shows that: Indirect reciprocity is based on knowing the other player's reputation, which is the player's history with other players.
Berkeley, for example, while affirming the dependence of actual on the idea, i.e., that there are no objects outside our perceptions, nevertheless continues to attribute representations of reality to an objective and absolute mind, presupposed to the human mind.
The efforts of Ficino and Pico to introduce Neoplatonic and Hermetic doctrines into the teaching of the Roman Catholic Church has recently been evaluated in terms of an attempted "Hermetic Reformation".
In this sense, absurdity is the product of the power of our consciousness to take a step back from whatever it is considering and reflect on the reason of its object.
Let 'Descartes' be a name, or rigid designator, of a certain person, and let 'B' be a rigid designator of his body.
In 2021 the organization published the book Økonomisk tenkning [Economic thought] presenting different economic schools of thoughts.
According to Sarah Lane Ritchie of the University of Edinburgh, the term "theistic naturalism" was first used by Dutch philosopher Willem Drees.
In small populations or groups there is the possibility that indirect reciprocity (reputation) can interact with direct reciprocity (e.g.
Applications Analog observation is typically divided into two iteration of application: The first iteration primarily studies the effect of manipulation of variables in the subject's environment, including setting and events, on the subject's behavior.
Hallowell's approach influenced the work of anthropologist Nurit Bird-David, who produced a scholarly article reassessing the idea of animism in 1999.
Specifically, Rethinking Economics demands more real-world applicability of the contents in economics degrees.
Polycentric law is a theoretical legal structure in which "providers" of legal systems compete or overlap in a given jurisdiction, as opposed to monopolistic statutory law according to which there is a sole provider of law for each jurisdiction.
Pinker, have judged the impasse to be total: perhaps the emergence of consciousness is simply incomprehensible in human terms." Opponents Daniel Dennett, American philosopher, who has explicitly attacked McGinn's notion of mysterianism.
Since naturalized epistemology relies on empirical evidence, all epistemic facts which comprise this reliable method must be reducible to natural facts.
Mental substance, according to the idea held by dualists and idealists, is a non-physical substance of which minds are composed.
Indian emblem motto The motto of the republic of India's emblem is Satyameva Jayate which is literally translated as 'Truth alone triumphs'.
The term originated from naturalist philosophy in the German provinces, and culminated in Britain especially by scholars Robert Knox and Richard Owen, who drew from Goethe and Lorenz Oken.
"Mainstreaming Ethnicity: Horace Kallen, the Strategy of Transcendence, and Cultural Pluralism," Southern Communication Journal 69 (2), 2004.
Overview Abstract Objects: An Introduction to Axiomatic Metaphysics (1983) is the title of a publication by Edward Zalta that outlines abstract object theory.
This strategy occurs when a firm lacks understanding of the majority preferences, and none of the options would cause harm to the firm.
Luis Estrada-González in "Models of Possiblism and Trivialism" has interpreted Aristotle's Metaphysics Book IV as such: "A family of arguments between 1008a26 and 1007b12 of the form 'If trivialism is right, then X is the case, but if X is the case then all things are one.
From this it follows also that the objective world as we know it does not belong to the true being of things-in-themselves, but is its mere phenomenon, conditioned by those very forms that lie a priori in the human intellect (i.e., the brain); hence the world cannot contain anything but phenomena.
Trialism keeps the two substances of mind and body, but introduces a third substance, sensation, belonging to the union of mind and body.
For a liberal naturalist, many things in our everyday world that are not explicable (or not fully explicable) by science are, nonetheless, presupposed by science—e.g., tables, persons, artworks, institutions, rational norms and values.
In Dewey's continuum of experiences, no experience lives on its own, it is influenced by the experiences that preceded it, and influences those that will follow it.
Concept Fictionalism consists in at least the following three theses: Claims made within the domain of discourse are taken to be truth-apt; that is, true or false.
Their Aristotelian realist philosophy of mathematics holds that mathematics studies properties such as symmetry, continuity and order that can be immanently realized in the physical world (or in any other world there might be).
In relation to mystical practices In the mystical practices of Kashmir Shaivism, svātantrya is both the sovereign will of Śiva, solely deciding the descent of divine grace (śaktipāt) and the will of the adept as s/he becomes more and more submerged into the divine.
Correspondence rules describe how the classes and methods in the various concerns are related to each other at points where they interact, allowing composite behavior for a method to be derived from several concerns.
Push-Pull-Thinking Push-Pull-Thinking can be understood by the application of how new technology is created.
In the essay, Ginet made an incompatibilist argument, stating that if determinism is true, we do not have free choice and cannot choose to do other than what we do.
Baruch Spinoza argued that 'God or Nature' (Deus sive Natura) is the only substance of the universe, which can be referred to as either 'God' or 'Nature' (the two being interchangeable).
By 2001, he had authored a free-verse pastiche of "Out of All the Masts", which, according to Irimia, outlines an implicit home in the survival of Romanian identity: Notes References Pompiliu Constantinescu, Ion Vlad, "Contribuții exegetice.
He posited that the most proper occasion for mutual liberty was in a community governed by the consent of the governed and argued that only in a republic may members of all political factions participate.
A feature that distinguishes humans from most animals is that we are not born with an extensive repertoire of behavioral programs that would enable us to survive on our own ("physiological prematurity").
See also Color fictionalism Hans Vaihinger Noble lie Philosophy of color Pragmatism Quietism (philosophy) References Further reading Balaguer, Mark (1998).
Aristotle accepts ten categories: Substance Quality Quantity Relation Place Time Posture Property Activity Passivity The Vaiśeṣikas instead place the concepts of time and place under substance; relation under quality; inherence, quantity and property under quality.
The typical wording, "religious sects or denominations," is most often used to challenge support to Catholic parochial schools (38% of private school attendance); Protestant schools with an undifferentiated "Christian" often get a pass.
Norma Romm, in her book Accountability in Social Research (2001), argues that social researchers can earn trust from participants and wider audiences insofar as they adopt this orientation and invite inputs from others regarding their inquiry practices and the results thereof.
Each sequence has a different time of origin, some going back before we were born, some originating during our deliberations.
If one is a voluntarist with respect to beliefs, it is coherent to simultaneously feel very certain about a particular proposition P and assign P a very low subjective probability.
This indicates the process by which the yanantin pair becomes “pared” in Platt's terms, or harmonized to achieve a perfect fit.
According to Harald Atmanspacher, "dual-aspect approaches consider the mental and physical domains of reality as aspects, or manifestations, of an underlying undivided reality in which the mental and the physical do not exist as separate domains.
He claimed that we can account for unperceived objects in terms of counterfactual conditionals: It is true that valuables locked in a safe remain in existence, despite being unperceived, because if someone were to look inside then this person would have a corresponding sensory impression.
One objection that can be offered against Van Inwagen's view is the vagueness of the category of life and the ambiguity of when something gets "caught up" in a life.
While Shankara took a realistic stance, and his explanations are "remote from any connotation of illusion," the 13th-century scholar Prakasatman, founder of the influential Vivarana school, introduced the notion that the world is illusory.
If no translation between scientific knowledge and the logical structures can be constructed that works both ways, then the properties of the purely logical and set-theoretic constructions do not usefully inform understanding of scientific knowledge.
Any given structure in the brain will be causally related to, and isomorphic in various respects to, many different structures in external reality.
the self, it could then follow that the external world should be somehow directly manipulable by that consciousness, and if it is not, then solipsism is false.
Round square copula The round square copula is a common example of the dual copula strategy used in reference to the "problem of nonexistent objects" as well as their relation to problems in modern philosophy of language.
Naturalized epistemology at PhilPapers Naturalized epistemology at the Indiana Philosophy Ontology Project Fieser, James; Dowden, Bradley (eds.).
See also Psychological research Psychological research methods Naturalistic observation Observational study == References ==
Even if a person has a goal, they may choose to attempt to achieve it in ways that may be considered arbitrary.
But, the only way to support the truth of this world-theory that is allowed by the correspondence theory of truth, is correspondence to the real world.
It is nothing, then, either to the living or to the dead, for with the living it is not and the dead exist no longer.
Although the term pantheism was not coined until after his death, Spinoza is regarded as its most celebrated advocate.
He taught, as customary at that time, various disciplines from humanities to theology and scientific disciplines ranging from logic to physics.
The holomovement has also been invoked in spiritual and activist communities as a metaphor for collective awakening and planetary coherence, sometimes framing it as a foundation for a "new story" in sociocultural evolution.
This effectively denied that Lamarckism (inheritance of acquired characteristics) was a possible mechanism of evolution.
These difficulties for logical positivism suggest, but do not entail, scientific realism, and led to the development of realism as a philosophy of science.
A version of this position espoused by John McDowell claims that the debate hinges on theses about the relationship between the mind and the world around us that are unsupported or unsupportable, and without those claims there will be no debate.
Yet this implies that mental events can have two causes (physical and mental), a situation which apparently results in overdetermination (redundant causes), and denies the strong physical causal closure.
A common view is that rabbinic law recognizes logically incompatible or contradictory positions, while also consonant with God.
Calvin himself defines predestination as "the eternal decree of God, by which he determined with himself whatever he wished to happen with regard to every man.
The object has a concept (sense), the concept of the object, associated with the name of the object.
The distinctions between choice and luck made by compatibilism are important, but wholly undermined by hard determinism.
This, of course, may indicate a human capacity for reasoning that is no more than the result of organized functions.
A work System der Weltalter from 1827/8 consists of Munich lecture notes taken by Ernst von Lasaulx from Schelling, who was at that time a student also of Franz von Baader and Joseph Görres.
First he lists five properties of qualia: They are "directly" or "immediately" graspable during our conscious experiences.
Merleau-Ponty's Phenomenology of Perception (1945) was recognized as a major statement of French existentialism.
Similarly, and in Italy, the Spanish Duque de Rivas' play that Verdi transformed into La Forza del Destino ("The Force of Destiny") includes notions of fate.
He began studies of philosophy at the University of Zaragoza, earning his licentiate degree (as well as his PhD degree) from the University of Madrid.
In political philosophy, the general will (French: volonté générale) is the will of the people as a whole.
Conceptualism holds that they exist, but only in the mind, while nominalism holds that universals do not "exist" at all but are no more than words (flatus vocis) that describe specific objects.
History Civic nationalism lies within the traditions of rationalism and liberalism, but as a form of nationalism it is contrasted with ethnic nationalism.
The other kind of antireductionism (ontological) holds that such a complete explanation in terms of basic constituents is not possible even in principle for some systems.
Gustav Fechner Mark Solms, neuropsychoanalyst, for whom dual-aspect monism represents a matrix of ontological juxtaposition of psychoanalytical and neuroscientific knowledge from two distinct perspectives: looking from the inside and looking from the outside.
For instance, as soon as someone reads letters on a page or screen, they can "see what it says"—the letters speak as much as nature spoke to pre-literate peoples.
For many things cannot occur without our being willing and indeed contributing a most strenuous eagerness and zeal for these things, since, he says, it was fated for these things to occur in conjunction with this personal effort.
Resolution of the paradox of the name relationship using the Frege–Church ontology Ambiguities in ordinary language lead to confusion The English ordinary language has ambiguities that need to be clarified as we sometimes refer to an object with a word, e.g., a cat.
A dynamical system displays sensitive dependence on initial conditions if points arbitrarily close together separate over time at an exponential rate.
Outside Europe, it has also been used to describe the Republican Party in the United States during the Civil War Era.
Body Image Body image is a subjective picture of one's own physical appearance established both by self-awareness and by noting the reactions of others.
According to Lucretius, the unpredictable swerve occurs "at no fixed place or time": When atoms move straight down through the void by their own weight, they deflect a bit in space at a quite uncertain time and in uncertain places, just enough that you could say that their motion has changed.
But the whole point of the modern doctrine is the evolution of the complex organisms from antecedent states of less complex organisms.
For example, in the debate over the existence of universals, conceptualism proposes that ideas (or concepts) like "justice" or "beauty" do not exist independently but rather are mental categories that have been developed through experiences and reasoning.
Temporary intrinsics and intrinsic change Another line of argument appeals to the problem of temporary intrinsics—properties that an object appears to have independently of its relations to other things, but that can vary over time.
Information on these rates can also be obtained from NASA's cfm Longitudinal Study of Astronaut Health database at the Lyndon B.
See also Space colonization Vision for Space Exploration References External links National Space Society official website Ad Astra online edition
Space crews' current nominal number of work hours is 6.5 hours per day, and weekly work time should not exceed 48 hours.
Heart rhythm disturbances have also been seen among astronauts, but it is unclear whether this was a result of pre-existing conditions or an effect of the micro-g environment.
Novel multicolor fluorescence painting techniques of human chromosomes have clearly demonstrated that high-LET α-particles and Fe-ions induce many more complex rearrangements will ultimately lead to cell death.
She represented NASA as a flight engineer from 6 June to 20 December 2018, supporting the ISS' preservation and planning for experiments completion along with her follow astronauts working a daily amount of 12 hours.
Additionally, he co-founded the eHealth Research Institute (eHRI) with Rice University and the National Space Biomedical Research Institute.
According to researchers from the University of Rochester Medical Center, a radiation equivalent to a mission to Mars can cause serious brain damage such as cognition problems and Alzheimer's disease.
Research Teams Cardiovascular Alterations Human Factors and Performance Musculoskeletal Alterations Neurobehavioral and Psychosocial Factors Radiation Effects Sensorimotor Adaptation Smart Medical Systems and Technology Outreach NSBRI also had a robust education and outreach program.
He took part in both the planning and provision of emergency medical and rescue support for the first six Shuttle flights.
Ptransfer is the uncertainty in the transfer of cancer risk following radiation exposure from the Japanese population to the U.S.
Space medicine focuses specifically on prevention, acute care, emergency medicine, wilderness medicine, hyper/hypobaric medicine in order to provide medical care of astronauts and spaceflight participants.
A medical support system is being developed to ensure that adequate medical care can be administered autonomously or with support from ground crews on Earth.
In 1852, astronomer and British Major General Edward Sabine showed that the probability of the occurrence of geomagnetic storms on Earth was correlated with the number of sunspots, demonstrating a novel solar-terrestrial interaction.
The first female astronaut of the French Space Agency (CNES) and the European Space Agency (ESA) to go to space and to visit the ISS, she later was a government minister under Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin.
In November 2019, researchers reported that astronauts experienced serious blood flow and clot problems while on board the International Space Station, based on a six-month study of 11 healthy astronauts.
The mission successfully splashed down on October 25, 2024, concluding a nearly eight-month science mission.
CSA career Thirsk was in the family medicine residency program at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Montreal when he was selected in December 1985 by the National Research Council of Canada to join the Canadian astronaut program.
He was elected president of the American Telemedicine Association in 2011, serving for a one-year term that ended in 2012.
Those who perform shift work suffer from increased fatigue because the timing of their sleep/wake schedule is out of sync with natural daylight (see Shift work syndrome).
The ORFEUS instruments, mounted on the reusable Shuttle Pallet Satellite, studied the origin and makeup of stars.
Astronaut experience Selected by NASA in January 1990, Harris became an astronaut in July 1991, and qualified for assignment as a mission specialist on future Space Shuttle flight crews.
The mission consisted of 82 investigations of Space Life Science (Human Physiology, Space Biology, Radiation Biology, and Bioprocessing) and Microgravity Science (Material Science, Fluid Science and Research on the Microgravity Environment and Countermeasures).
Further investigations carried out in space will perhaps reveal that other higher cortical functions are impaired in weightless conditions.
Afterwards, she returned to the Memphis Veterans Administration Hospital, where she commenced a residency in plastic surgery.
Analysis of the 171 simultaneous paired recordings of non-invasive ICP and the "gold standard" invasive CSF pressure on 110 neurological patients and TBI patients showed good accuracy for the non-invasive method as indicated by the low mean systematic error (0.12 mmHg; confidence level (CL) = 0.98).
Prior to this, she was an assistant professor in the Department of Cardiovascular Surgery at Keio University, the oldest university in Japan.
During preparations for re-entry from orbit on June 30, 1971, a pressure-equalisation valve in the spacecraft's descent module unexpectedly opened at an altitude of 168 kilometres (551,000 ft), causing rapid depressurisation and the subsequent death of the entire crew.
Spaceflight and religion Since Sheikh Muszaphar is a Muslim, and as his time in space coincided with the last part of Ramadan, the Islamic National Fatwa Council drew up the first comprehensive guidebook for Muslims in space.
Over time immunodeficiency results in the rapid spread of infection among crew members, especially in the confined areas of space flight systems.
Kp/ap index: 'a' is an index created from the geomagnetic disturbance at one midlatitude (40° to 50° latitude) geomagnetic observatory during a 3-hour period.
The resulting accident investigations and mishap reports note poor teamwork, communication, coordination, and tactical decision-making as significant causal factors in mishap samples and team breakdowns are repeatedly implicated in accidents.
In microgravity, the cranial venous system has been put into minimal outflow and maximal obstruction.
Indeed, data suggest that common genetic variations (polymorphisms) involved in sleep-wake, circadian, and cognitive regulation may serve as markers for prediction of inter-individual differences in sleep homeostatic and neurobehavioral vulnerability to sleep restriction in healthy adults.
She was a mission specialist on STS-34 in 1989, STS-50 in 1992, and STS-71 in 1995 and has logged over 686 hours in space.
These have included survivors of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, workers at nuclear reactors, and medical patients treated with X-rays.
Because of a lack of empirical evidence from spaceflight research, much of the evidence surrounding cohesion and performance comes from non-space domains such as aviation, medicine, the military, and space analogs.
In 1986, she received a diploma in the biomechanics and physiology of movement and received her doctorates in rheumatology (1984) and neuroscience (1992).
The research was sponsored by the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space (CASIS) in partnership with Novartis and NanoMedical Systems.
While he continued to practice medicine and serve as adjunct professor of medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, Holmquist also worked as a lawyer, focused on matters related to the health care industry.
In 2012, he was made a Member of the Order of British Columbia and in 2013 he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada Post-CSA career From August 2012 to February 2014, Thirsk worked for the Canadian Institutes of Health Research as Vice President, Public, Government and Institute Affairs.
STS-58, designated Spacelab Life Sciences 2, was the second dedicated mission to study regulatory physiology, cardiovascular/cardiopulmonary, musculoskeletal and neuroscience.
It also came weeks after a particularly embarrassing moment for Roscosmos; during the docking of the Nauka module its engines kept firing causing the entire space station to flip over one and a half times.
On 21 December 2011, Kuipers was launched for his second spaceflight PromISSe on Expedition 30 and Expedition 31.
As a NASDA astronaut, she was a visiting scientist at the Division of Cardiovascular Physiology, Space Biomedical Research Institute, NASA Johnson Space Center, from 1987 to 1988.
Aeropause is the region in which the functional effects of the atmosphere on man and craft begin to cease.
CapComs speak directly with the space station crew, and assist with technical planning for the mission and last-minute troubleshooting.
This list is currently under development and will assist in planning research and development activities.
Such storms cause data-interpretation problems because the space weather-related magnetic field changes are similar in magnitude to those of the subsurface crustal magnetic field in the survey area.
The course cost several thousand dollars, which she could not afford, but she wrote to Vincent Markovchik, the head of the program, and he agreed to waive the fee.
He continued practicing medicine during his appeal, culminating in the restoration of his license following remedial action in 1989.
STS-65 STS-65 Columbia (July 8–23, 1994) was the second International Microgravity Laboratory (IML-2) flight.
As part of the study astronauts successfully completed a functional assessment of grip strength in mice on the orbiting laboratory.
The median ERR varies by slightly more than a factor of two, but confidence levels significantly overlap.
Astronauts will become increasingly isolated from Earth-based mission support and thus will rely heavily on their own decision-making capabilities and onboard tools to accomplish proposed EVA mission objectives.
NASA defines critical workload overload for a space flight crew as 10-hour work days for 3 days per work week, or more than 60 hours per week (NASA STD-3001, Vol.
He is the author of a number of publications in the domain of bioastronautics including "Ebullism at 1 million feet: Surviving Rapid/Explosive Decompression" and "Medical emergencies in space".
The reason behind choosing such methods of radiation shielding is that in passive shielding, adding a certain thickness to the spacecraft can increase the mass of the spacecraft by several thousands of kilograms.
References Other sources Flitner, Bettina: Frauen mit Visionen – 48 Europäerinnen (Women with visions – 48 Europeans).
The three crewmembers also performed a "flyaround" in the Soyuz spacecraft-undocking from one docking port of the station, manually flying to and redocking the capsule at a different location-thus making Linenger the first American to undock from a space station aboard two different spacecraft (U.S.
Description Sleeping in space requires that astronauts sleep in a crew cabin, a small room about the size of a shower stall or telephone booth.
LET relationship that was found for total exchanges is similar to that of earlier studies of mutation and in vitro neoplastic transformation.
However, transdermal dimenhydrinate anti-nausea patches are typically used whenever space suits are worn because vomiting into a space suit could be fatal by obscuring vision or blocking airflow.
During this 11-day flight, the HST was restored to its full capabilities through the work of two pairs of astronauts during a record 5 spacewalks.
In 2013, she was selected as part of the reserve crew for Hawai'i Space Exploration Analog and Simulation (HI-SEAS), which is part of a study for NASA to determine the best way to keep astronauts well nourished during multiple-year missions to Mars or the moon.
An early investigation showed that the brief intrathoracic pressure increase during a Valsalva maneuver resulted in an associated rise in ICP.
Mission accomplished in 153 orbits of the Earth, traveling 4.1 million miles in 235 hours and 23 minutes.
He returned to the University of North Carolina Medical School in 1959, graduated in 1963, and completed internship training in 1964 at the Wilford Hall USAF Hospital at Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas.
From 2001 to 2011, Czarnik served in several missions as Medical Director for the Mars Society's FMARS and MDRS, simulated Mars habitats.
Ebullism occurs when unprotected humans are exposed to altitudes above the Armstrong limit where the vapor pressure of tissues is less than the ambient pressure.
That experience led him to imagine living in an O'Neill cylinder (habitat in space), which inspired him to become involved with the Space Studies Institute and begin speaking with astronauts.
During November 16-29, 2009, Satcher was the first orthopedic oncologist to complete an orbit around Earth on the Space Shuttle Atlantis.
She died in a plane crash prior to being assigned to a crew to fly to the International Space Station.
Graveline served as the Director of Medical Operations at Kennedy Space Center (KSC) for the first four Space Shuttle launches.
More recently, in 2017, bacteria were found to be more resistant to antibiotics and to thrive in the near-weightlessness of space.
Other publications they have made electronic that are not currently included in the RRR are some UHMS's Underwater Medicine and Related Sciences and the Hyperbaric Oxygen Review journal which was published from 1980 to 1985.
In practice bodily fluids do not boil off continuously at this altitude because the skin and outer organs have enough strength to withstand the internal pressure, so the pressure inside the tissues would increase to match vapour pressure.
Graveline took a leave of absence from his medical practice in 1981 to once again take a position at NASA.
Her work studying the effects of low-gravity situations on the human body allowed NASA to prepare astronauts for long stays in the space station.
In April 1935, he was appointed Director of the Berlin-based "Research Institute for Aviation Medicine", a medical science think tank that operated under the auspices of Göring's Reich Ministry of Aviation.
Part of this act was to recruit nurses to work closely with medical teams to determine the health of astronauts prior to launch.
During the final weeks of her ISS mission, Auñón-Chancellor made random (unscheduled) ham radio contacts from the ISS, generally as the ISS made its Saturday morning and early afternoon (US Time) passes over the US.
These numbers do not include the additional cell hits by energetic electrons (delta rays) that are produced along the track of HZE nuclei or correlated cellular damage.
New activities such as performing human extravehicular activity (EVA) beyond the low Earth orbit environment require complex synchronization methods.
Mission objectives were accomplished in 221 orbits of the Earth, traveling 5.7 million miles in 331 hours 30 seconds and 4 minutes in space.
These crews living and working in harsh environments have had medical emergencies such as intracerebral hemorrhage, stroke, myocardial infarction (heart attack), appendicitis and bone fractures.
He was qualified for various technical assignments within the Astronaut Office and future flight assignments as a mission specialist.
Spaceflight experience STS-34 Atlantis (October 18–23, 1989) launched from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, and landed at Edwards Air Force Base in California.
However, the state permanently revoked his license in 1994, this time over allegations that he had sexually abused five children who were not among his patients.
The Sun's photosphere is observed continuously for activity that can be the precursors to solar flares and CMEs.
He was trained on scientific and technical briefings, intensive instruction in shuttle and International Space Systems, physiological training, T-38 flight training and water and wilderness survival training.
The fluence of charged particles hitting the brain of an astronaut has been estimated several times in the past.
These comparisons show that the doses that were received by the LSS population overlap strongly with the doses that are of concern to NASA Exploration mission (i.e., 50 to 2,000 milliSieverts (mSv)).
These particles are, therefore, characterized by a high-LET, however, they contain a low-LET component fur to high-energy electrons that are ejected by ions as they traverse tissue.
Causes and current studies Sixty-eight percent of early astronauts, through 1991, who have flown in space have reported generalized back pain.
Orthostatic intolerance can lead to temporary loss of consciousness due to the lack of pressure and stroke volume.
This is in comparison to 1–1.5% bone loss in the elderly per year, and 2–3% in postmenopausal women.
He worked with the Operational Medicine group and was Associate Manager of Biomedical Research as well as Program Scientist for the D-2 Spacelab mission and the Research Animal Holding Facility.
This article incorporates public domain material from Human Health and Performance Risks of Space Exploration Missions (PDF).
Research cannot effectively determine in a reasonable amount of time what minimum level of cohesion is required to avoid catastrophic failure.
Dental problems were the most common emergency during submarine and Antarctic expeditions and were a cause for transfer in the U.S.
Even when they are not actively assigned to flights, the position guarantees that the program will continue to benefit from the experience of seasoned astronauts.
A frequent traveler to Russia, he worked with counterparts at Star City and the Institute of Biomedical Problems and other ISS partner centers, developing medical procedures, training, and equipment for ISS.
He never complained of headaches, transient visual obscurations, diplopia, pulsatile tinnitus or other visual changes.
After completing doctorate-level training in epidemiology, Linenger returned to San Diego as a research principal investigator at the Naval Health Research Center.
Whether they can provide the same benefits for spaceflight as they do for osteoporosis is not yet known.
This led to Upper Atmosphere Research Program and later the Earth Observing System (EOS) satellites in the 1990s to monitor ozone depletion.
Patricia Consolatrix Hilliard Robertson (March 12, 1963 – May 24, 2001) was an American physician and a NASA astronaut.
His programs were directed toward protecting astronauts from the hazards of the space environment, including space radiation and microgravity, in addition to maintaining their medical, physical, and psychological well-being while aloft and on return to Earth.
During this year, he improved his skills in clinical practice, space medicine research and Russian language training.
He worked on problems relative to extending mission durations in the Space Shuttle, in the Space station, and in space exploration, and has designed the necessary exercise and other hardware to support such missions.
Under certain test conditions, microbes have been observed to thrive in the near-weightlessness of space and to survive in the vacuum of outer space.
On May 8, 2003, Environmental Protection Agency recognized NASA as the first federal agency to directly use landfill gas to produce energy at one of its facilities—the Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland.
On Earth, the bones are constantly being shed and regenerated through a well-balanced system which involves signaling of osteoblasts and osteoclasts.
During her residency with the University of Tennessee hospitals, she was the only woman in the General Surgery Residency Program.
During his medical career as a family doctor, Czarnik was affiliated with many hospitals including Marbleton/Big Piney Clinic, Altru Hospital (Nelson County Health System) and more.
She was living at Homer City and she was scheduled to work with the crew who were going to fly to the International Space Station in the following year.
After her return from space Mukai was a visiting professor at the International Space University (ISU) from September 2004 to September 2007.
He received a bachelor of science degree in physics from the University of North Carolina (UNC) in 1952.
Medical conditions due to long-term space flights Radiation exposure could also cause medical problems due to the technical problems involved in the shielding of space craft, especially given the length of missions to Mars.
There is scientific concern that extended spaceflight might slow down the body's ability to protect itself against diseases.
He was a member of several working groups and implementation teams planning collaborative research with German, French and Soviet government scientists.
On 5 August 2009, Dutch minister of economic affairs Maria van der Hoeven, announced Kuipers was selected as an astronaut for International Space Station (ISS) Expeditions 30 and 31.
Astronaut career In 1985, Mukai was selected as one of three Japanese Payload Specialist candidates for the First Material Processing Test (Spacelab-J) which flew aboard STS-47.
She first served as a back-up crew member for the 1993 Mir Altaïr mission, in which her future husband Jean-Pierre Haigneré participated.
Cucinotta, Francis A.; Schimmerling, Walter; Wilson, John W.; Peterson, Leif E.; Badhwar, Gautam D.; Saganti, Premkumar B.; Dicello, John F.
For Exploration mission planning, preliminary dose limits for the CNS risks are based largely on experimental results with animal models.
In completing the nearly five-month mission, Linenger logged approximately 50 million miles (the equivalent of over 110 round trips to the Moon and back), more than 2,000 orbits around the Earth, and traveled at an average speed of 18,000 miles per hour.
High rates of sleep medication are taken by astronauts to combat sleep deprivation, disturbances, and other sleep-related disorders caused by an increased presence of CO2 in the International Space Station.
Additive manufacturing has already been used on Earth in the personalized medicine field and there are methods sent to outer space for drug manufacturing and fabrication.
These studies require adjustments for photon energy, dose-rate, and country of origin as well as adjustments made in single population studies.
Medical career Williams received postgraduate training in advanced invertebrate physiology at the Friday Harbor Laboratories of the University of Washington.
Sleeping in space is part of space medicine and mission planning, with impacts on the health, capabilities and morale of astronauts.
The first comprehensive worldwide measurements were obtained in 1978 with the Nimbus 7 satellite and NASA scientists at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies.
NEEMO In June 2012, Auñón piloted a DeepWorker 2000 submersible as part of the NASA/NOAA NEEMO 16 underwater exploration mission off Key Largo, Florida.
Depending on the technology, hardware and expertise needed, research may be conducted across a range of centers.
At San Antonio, Texas in November 1951 a symposium was held with a focus aimed at forecasting the future research needed for crewed flight that approached the upper limits of the atmosphere.
STS-133 Barratt next flew to space as a mission specialist on STS-133, the final flight of Space Shuttle Discovery.
Jonathan Clark (who was part of an official NASA panel that prepared the final 400-page report about the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster), and son Iain who was born in 1996.
The NCRP recommends a mixture model to be used that contains fractional contributions from both methods.
In 2004, the Naval Aerospace Medicine Institute named its Aerospace Medicine Academic Center in Pensacola after Clark and David M.
NASA experience Linenger joined astronaut selection Group 14 at the Johnson Space Center in August 1992.
In 1999, Haigneré commanded a Soyuz capsule during reentry and became the first woman qualified to do so.
Symptoms Symptoms of ebullism include bubbles in the membranes of the mouth and eyes, swelling of the soft tissues with possible bruising, and bubbles in the blood.
The research on performance errors caused by team factors is ambiguous and currently, no systematic attempt has been undertaken to measure performance errors due to psychosocial team factors during space flight.
She was a rescue helicopter physician for the early Space Shuttle flights and a support crew member for STS-6.
Some studies have shown increased latencies and decreased peak velocities of saccades, while others have found just the opposite.
Studies on promethazine were performed exclusively on Earth, called earthbound models, stimulating microgravity and weightlessness through forty-eight hours of bed rest.
She received the Chevalier of the Légion d'Honneur as well as the Chevalier of the Ordre National du Mérite.
On 16 July 2013, EVA-23 was cut short as the helmet of Luca Parmitano's Extravehicular Mobility Unit suit started filling with water.
In both cases, CO2, cabin pressure and oxygen levels were reported to be within acceptable limits and the astronauts were not exposed to any toxic fumes.
Measured rate of cancer among astronauts The measured change rate of cancer is restricted by limited statistics.
Awards and honors Cagle has received numerous awards and recognition including: Outstanding Young Women of America National Defense Service Medal Air Force Achievement Medal U.S.
Czarnik is especially known for his scientific contributions to space medicine as well as a better understanding of such phenomena as ebullism and uncontrolled decompression.
References External links Duane Graveline's web site This article incorporates text from http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/Bios/htmlbios/graveline-de.html, which is a webpage by NASA.
As chief engineer of the electronics division of the Del Mar Engineering Labs at Los Angeles from 1956 to 1959, he also organized and directed its Avionics Division.
For example, on Mars, where gravity is about one-third that of earth, the gravitational forces acting on astronauts' bodies would be much lower, causing bones to decrease in mass and density.
Clark was also a Basic Life Support Instructor, Advanced Cardiac Life Support Provider, Advanced Trauma Life Support Provider, and Hyperbaric Chamber Advisor.
SpaceX Crew-3 On November 11, 2021, Marshburn launched on the SpaceX Crew-3 spaceflight as part of the long duration Expedition 66 mission onboard the ISS.
The study of visual changes and ICP in astronauts on long-duration flights is a relatively recent topic of interest to space medicine professionals.
Geoeffectiveness is a measure of how strongly space weather magnetic fields, such as coronal mass ejections, couple with the Earth's magnetic field.
In the vacuum of space, gas exchange in the lungs continues but results in the removal of all gases, including oxygen, from the bloodstream.
Continued or additional pressurisation where necessary to prevent or treat decompression sickness is also indicated.
Spaceflight experience STS-6 He first flew on STS-6, which launched from the Kennedy Space Center, on April 4, 1983, and landed at Edwards Air Force Base in California, on April 9, 1983.
To date, flight data related to potential back injuries have focused on spine elongation and the well-established effects of mechanical unloading on intervertebral discs.
Devices such as tensiometers are used to measure the moisture content of the soil that helps to maintain the most favorable conditions for crop growth.
Fourth, there are medications available to astronauts aboard the ISS that prolong QTc interval, including ciprofloxacin, haldol, inderal, verapamil, zithromax, Zoloft®, and nortriptyline.
He has authored numerous scientific papers in the fields of human factors, environmental and aerospace medicine.
Biophysical models have shown that the energy deposition events by high-LET radiation produce differential DNA lesions, including complex DNA breaks, and that there are qualitative differences between high- and low-LET radiation, in both the induction and the repair of DNA damage.
Auñón 5 Things You Didn’t Know About Astronaut Serena Auñón-Chancellor NASA Johnson Space Center YouTube Channel, June 5, 2018 Serena Auñón-Chancellor on X
He has earned FAA ratings for instructor, instrument instructor, glider instructor, and airline transport pilot in addition to astronaut wings.
He continued there as a United States Air Force postdoctoral fellow (1965–1966), working in aerospace medicine and physiology, and as a National Heart Institute postdoctoral fellow (1966–1967), teaching and researching cardiovascular and exercise physiology.
After completing flight and academic training, he worked on the design and development of the Skylab Program.
Given the fact that these data disagreed with previous reports, the investigators suggested that further study was required.
After three years of training, he was certified by the American Board of Emergency Medicine in 1992.
The astronaut also reported back pain on landing day that was associated with a herniated intervertebral disc.
History In 2002, divers Brian Armstrong, Gene Hobbs, and James Wagner formed the first board of directors for the Rubicon Foundation.
She was stationed at MCAS Yuma, Arizona, and assigned as Flight Surgeon Marine Attack Squadron 211 (VMA-211), a Marine Corps AV-8B Harrier squadron.
Risk in context of exploration operational scenarios Defining the cause of back pain and IVD injury due to spaceflight remains an open issue.
She worked in emergency departments at several hospitals in Mississippi and Tennessee, despite this being against the rules of the residency program.
Harris was part of the payload crew of Spacelab D-2, conducting a variety of research in physical and life sciences.
Hoyle and Wickramasinghe went further and speculated that the overall spectroscopic data of cosmic dust and gas clouds also matched those for desiccated bacteria.
The fate of normal cells that contain a single terminal deletion is unknown, but it has been shown that the loss of a single telomere in cancer cells can result in instability in multiple chromosomes.
Environmental conditions that impact pharmacological dynamics of drugs Several studies in the past have relied on the assumption that a drug's action would not be compromised when a subject and/or drug are placed in altered environments.
Mission programs and terrestrial occupational procedures resulting in radiation exposures to astronauts are required to find cost-effective approaches to implement ALARA.
In May 1989 as a commissioned medical officer assigned to the 48th Tactical Hospital, United Kingdom, Cagle served as Air Force Medical Liaison Officer for STS-30 mission to test the Magellan spacecraft, before she became a NASA astronaut.
In the process of arresting her, the officer twisted her wrist and forced her to the ground, as well as having her walk barefoot from the patrol car into the police station.
He performed his fifth EVA with fellow astronaut Kayla Barron on the exterior of the ISS shortly after the mission had begun.
An experience in grade school of being passed over for an opportunity for a boy classmate who hadn't scored as well on a qualification exam made Bondar especially driven to prove herself academically.
It was during his two-year tour of duty there that he became involved in space medicine research and subsequently applied and was selected for astronaut training.
This may be in part due to lack of adequately designed studies (no controlled study had been done as of 2005, either in space or using bedrest as an attempt to simulate conditions which lead to bone loss).
The Community Coordinated Modeling Center (CCMC) at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center is a facility for coordinating the development and testing of research models, for improving and preparing models for use in space weather prediction and application.
Computer based simulation information Studies applying Finite Element Modeling (FEM) to IVDs under the lower osmotic pressure of the space environment shows that the appearance of a crack in the IVD experiencing lower osmotic pressure will increase the IVD risk for injury.
Risk in context of exploration mission operational scenarios The accuracy of galactic cosmic ray environmental models, transport codes and nuclear interaction cross sections allow NASA to predict space environments and organ exposure that may be encountered on long-duration space missions.
The survival of some microorganisms exposed to outer space has been studied using both simulated facilities and low Earth orbit exposures.
from Cornell in 1981, interning at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and completing his residence at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center.
Short-term and long-term health effects have been seen in the cardiovascular system from exposure to the micro-g environment that would limit those exposed after they return to Earth or a regular gravity environment.
She was minister delegate for Research and New Technologies from 2002 to 2004 and succeeded Noëlle Lenoir as minister delegate for European Affairs from 2004 to 2005.
Following his first mission, in January 1995, he began training at the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center in Star City, Russia, in preparation for a long-duration stay aboard the Russian Space Station Mir.
In August 2007, Furukawa served as an aquanaut during the NEEMO 13 project, an exploration research mission held in Aquarius, the world's only undersea research laboratory.
For end-of-sequence processing, or processing that occurs once all of the information has been presented, the model predicts primacy effects.
However, some evidence suggests that using sexual appeal to sell a product may not succeed, as the target audience may focus too much on the sexually appealing people in the advertisement rather than the product itself.
Cookie Jar TV ended on September 21, 2013 and was replaced by a Litton Entertainment-produced block called the "CBS Dream Team" on September 28, 2013.
Ayer Company Patent Medicine Cards, a gallery of 247 patent medicine advertising cards, at UCLA library
A Huntington Beach assemblyman introduced a state resolution to recognize "Surf City Huntington Beach" in 1992, but Santa Cruz fought the initiative and it failed.
designated market areas, and through this network delivers more than 500 million consumer touches annually.
Some detractors claimed the ad was scaremongering and created "unnecessary" fear amongst the broader community, and mounting media criticism and public hysteria cut short the campaign's intended six week run to just three weeks.
Schnuffel (German pronunciation: [ˈʃnʊfəl]; English: Snuggle, French: Lapin Câlin, Italian: Kikolo, Spanish: Snufi) is an animated rabbit created in 2007 by the German media company Jamba!.
From 2013 to 2016, Vayntrub portrayed a saleswoman named Lily Adams in a series of TV commercials for AT&T.
Other leaders in the "fourth screen" marketplace are Gas Station TV and Zephyr Media Inc; GSTV generates over 32 million digital signage impressions every month and Zephyr Media Inc on their US Army Network over 25 million digital signage impressions a month.
PDFCreator allows the user to disable printing, copying of text or images and modifying the original document.
AMV BBDO is an advertising agency that works with over 85 brands, including BT, Diageo, Walkers, and Mars.
Repetition Variation is an advertising strategy that modifies repeated ads to maintain consumer interest and effectiveness while avoiding overexposure.
The marketing spread to the parks in 2005 when one ride in the chain, Pandemonium at Six Flags New England, temporarily held the name "Mr.
In the television ads, the two turtles are usually shown together explaining why they are so happy with DSL service, and that if they got Xfinity, it would be far too fast for them.
Hebrew media reported that Sembira's dismissal followed internal Likud criticism labeling her a "leftist" — in part for publicly defending the independence of the judiciary amidst protests against the 2023 Israeli judicial reform.
Whipple was the third best-known American, behind former President Richard Nixon and evangelist Billy Graham.
This ceased at the end of the World War I and was followed by the Women's Advertising Club of London in September 1923.
Origins and the Iraq War Around the time of t.A.T.u.'s performance, anti-war narratives were actively suppressed by major United States television broadcasters as the nation prepared for the Iraq War.
Downsides The boards can be a big investment for some companies and are expensive to repair and maintain.
In 2009, growing concern about consumers being misled by celebrity endorsers on social media platforms led to the Federal Trade Commission introducing a set of guidelines to protect consumers called "Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising".
Exciting music has been shown to increase arousal in skin response and heart rate which can be seen as a physical form of showing emotion through music.
The montage began with a clip of the very first Flake Girl advertisement from 1959, followed by a 1965 clip of a girl relaxing in a rowing boat whilst being pestered by a cheeky swan for a peck of her Flake bar.
Benefits Owners The DOMB signs' displays can be changed quickly and remotely from a different location than the board.
See also Alex the Dog List of individual dogs Bullseye (mascot) Fry and the Slurm Factory == References ==
saw an increase in the number of households from the period of 1990-2005 yet it also experienced a decline in its population.
Pre-testing Pre-testing, also known as copy testing, is a specialized field of marketing research that determines an ad’s effectiveness based on consumer responses, feedback, and behavior.
Even six months before the scheduled Spring 1990 test marketing and before costs were incurred for ads or promotions, the cost of the project had exceeded $1.4 million.
The act of making this transformation would also appear to overlap with web design itself, as the advertising email is basically a small, one-page HTML application.
In-person demonstrations of affection for the ad by theater-goers have included cheering (particularly at the line "Somehow, heartbreak feels good in a place like this"), saluting, and reciting the script in time with Kidman.
Factors related to ability to think includes: time pressure, message repetition, distraction, knowledge, fatigue, social pressure, etc.
When the second generation of mobile telecoms (so-called 2G) was introduced in Finland by Radiolinja (now Elisa) on the GSM standard (now the world's most common mobile technology with over 2 billion users) in 1991, the digital technology introduced data services.
In these regions, it is not uncommon to find similar black silhouettes of, for example, the cow used by the Galicians, the donkey used by the Catalans, the sheep used by the Basques or the Tudanca cow used by the Cantabrians.
Like the National Post and the Toronto Telegram, the Sun aligns itself with the views of the Conservative Party.
It can also help existing readers see new or upcoming changes, additions, or improvements to the magazine.
Voltswagen joke In March 2021, several major media outlets reported that Volkswagen was rebranding itself as "Voltswagen" to focus on the development of electric vehicles.
He commented that the controls have a potentially frustrating learning curve but are worth mastering, and deemed the game "A new high-water mark".
Events The Electronic Beats live music events are a series of club nights, concerts and festivals hosted in cities throughout Europe.
Celebrities in advertising make the advertisement more noticeable to some consumers, and are therefore a good basis of capturing and retaining consumer attention.
At the same time, the outdoor advertising industry was becoming aware that excessive signs, some literally blocking another, were bad for business.
French newspaper Le Parisien reported that Céline Dion was also slated to perform her winning song for Switzerland in 1988, "Ne partez pas sans moi", but she withdrew at the last minute due to health issues; this was denied by her management.
The advert was not controversial in Norway and has been seen as an example of changing attitudes in the country as a result of campaigning by LGBT rights activists such as Kim Friele.
If a person/company is virtually unknown, they must create a sense of trust, believability in themselves and their product.
It also allows the duty-free importation of advertising material such as catalogues, price lists, and trade notices.
Digitas Health is an American interactive marketing agency catering exclusively to healthcare and pharmaceutical companies.
One of the advantages of the blitz campaign—that is so direct and local to an area—can also hinder its performance spread out further from the campaign’s heart.
There were many terrorist attacks in the country in these years, some committed by right-wing and neo-fascist groups, and others by left-wing groups.
Since "the required frequency changes with the product and the competitive climate it is in", the purpose of the GRP metric is to measure impressions compared to the number of people in the target for an advertising campaign.
Characterized by generous incentives combined with rebates on most Chrysler, Dodge, and Jeep models, Chrysler claims their offer bests those "employee discount" prices offered by General Motors or Ford Motor Company.
The Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity (formerly the International Advertising Festival) is a global event for those working in creative communications, advertising, and related fields.
Dewhurst, the three-term Lieutenant Governor, faced primary challenge from Tea Party favorite Dan Patrick.
Awards For its first 12 years, Cresta held an annual awards ceremony in cities throughout the world, including Budapest, Milan, and New York.
AdVerif.ai's technology used machine learning and natural language processing to detect questionable content.
The Bundaberg Rum bear first appeared in 1961 and was created by Sam McMahon the brother of former Australian Prime Minister William McMahon.
The medicines carried by the truck would have been valuable loot for these groups, and for the first part of the desert the expedition was accompanied by the French Foreign Legion.
Google calls their implementation "Google Advertising ID" (GAID) and formerly "Android ID", "Android Device ID", or "Android Advertising ID" (AAID).
In contrast, Albert Einstein’s Q Score at the time was 56, while Larry Ellison and Scott McNealy each received a Q Score of 6.
A street team is a term used in marketing to describe a group of people who engage with urban or campus communities to promote events.
Construction "One GRP is one percent of all potential adult television viewers (or in radio, listeners) in a market." If they are exposed to the ad three times, then that is 3 GRPs.
Evans of the Norfolk and Western Railway, who wished to create a symbol of the "Billion Dollar Coalfield" centered on Williamson.
Structure Screenvision was a joint venture between ITV plc (LSE: ITV), a UK-based free to air commercial television broadcaster and Technicolor SA, a provider of technology, services, systems and equipment to the media and entertainment industries.
Carnets for Commercial Samples which entered into force on 3 October 1957 and then virtually superseded by the Customs Convention on the A.T.A.
Background Hylink Digital Solution Co., Ltd was incorporated in 1994 as part of the Advertising & Marketing Services Industry.
External links Chrysler Incentives & Offers - Official Website Article about DaimlerChrysler's Employee Pricing Program for 2006
After test-marketing in Houston, Tucson, Phoenix, and Nashville, the brand didn't yield the desired results and was eventually withdrawn.
Lapam is structured into multiple operational units, including research, creative, budgeting, film production, digital design, and ongoing campaign management.
This left Ion Television (and later Ion Plus) as the only network to retain a Qubo-branded children's block, until Qubo Channel ceased operations on February 28, 2021, as the E.W.
The protagonist was played by Darcey-Ray Flavell-Hudson, who had gained recognition from his role in the 2010 Taika Waititi film Boy.
In one such commentary, the New York Daily News stated that the woman in the advertisement is "clearly stunned and possibly delighted" at being able to open the bottle easily.
They ruled in favor of Bad Frog Beer because they argued, in essence, that restricting this company's advertising would not make all that much of a difference on the explicit things children tend to see with access to other violence like video games.
In 2015, the studio opened an office in London, with plans to use that office for expansion into the rest of the world, including Asia.
This concept for this kind of vanity branding was created in ColoradoBiz magazine November 2011, but a company has been actually installing skyscaping since 2010.
In the 2014 Republican primary, Patrick triggered a runoff election by only gathering 41% of the vote; Dewhurst gathered 28% of the vote.
Those who would be fiscally impacted by counteradvertising, mostly broadcasters and advertisers, opposed this form of advertising claiming that it would destroy the television industry.
the artist is now subverting real billboards“ On September 9, 2008, a video posted on Stereohell.com revealed that the fake ads allegedly plastered throughout the city were actually Photoshop mockups, something nobody had suspected for one year.
Radio New Zealand's Elle Hunt contrasted the Legend campaign's use of the slogan "Bloody legend" with a previous NZTA campaign with the slogan "Bloody idiot", shifting the focus from discouragement of drunk drivers to encouragement of bystanders.
NBC Kids, which replaced the Qubo block (as a result of NBCUniversal withdrawing the joint venture, which also included Ion Media Networks), was programmed by the Sprout preschool cable network, as they were both targeted at children ages 2 to 6.
Recent industry analysis indicates that restaurant media in 2025 continues to expand through digital-first channels, with social platforms, online discovery tools, and visual content playing a central role in how consumers choose where to dine.
William George Crush, general passenger agent of the Missouri–Kansas–Texas Railroad, conceived the idea in order to demonstrate a staged train wreck as a public spectacle.
Many products which started in the United States have been taken into international distribution on television.
One of the more famous of these was Barack Obama’s thirty-minute infomercial “American Stories, American Solutions”, which aired on seven different networks.
However, the primary purpose of editorial calendars is to control the publication of content to ensure regular appearance of content that interests readers and advertisers.
Successful marketing blitzes In recent years, there have been several successful marketing blitzes, primarily from computer companies and video game companies.
Others are hobby programs or vanity programs paid for by the host and/or their supporters, and may be intended to promote the host's personality, for instance in preparation for a political campaign, or to promote a product, service or business that the host is closely associated with.
Tuna Again?; Canners Dust Off Ad Campaigns to Spur Lagging Sales: [Home Edition] - ProQuest.” Accessed April 25, 2025.
Operations The studio staff consists of journalists, video producers, technologists, strategists and social media experts.
In 2004, Nelly's video for his song "Tip Drill" came under particular criticism for its depiction and sexual objectification of women.
Zexal, Sonic X, and Dragon Ball Z Kai continued to air on the block until September 27, 2014, when Vortexx closed.
The agency's creative understudies, known as "Mr Robinson and Mr Young", were also involved in the creation.
As subscription rates have fallen total market coverage products have emerged as a separate project, sometimes administered by newspapers, and sometimes separate businesses known as pennysavers or shoppers.
The head and shoulder prosthetics were created by Nigel Booth, whose previous work includes prosthetic and make-up design on feature films such as The English Patient and Blade II.
Stickers distributed by the group include anti-vaccine and anti-mask messages, denials that the COVID-19 pandemic exists, and conspiracy theories about a New World Order.
While some sources rate adware only as an "irritant", others classify it as an "online threat" or even rate it as seriously as computer viruses and trojans.
In July 2017, Vayntrub was cast in the lead role of Marvel Comics superheroine Squirrel Girl in the New Warriors television pilot for Freeform.
Nearer and nearer as they approached the fatal meeting place the rumbling increased, the roaring grew louder...
The Emakina Group is Belgium advertising agency group that operates a number of digital communication agencies that are focused in Europe.
The station grew in popularity offering a variety of programming under the leadership of Sam Weller as the Programming Director.
Certain mainstream sports and entertainment broadcasts may resort to buying brokered airtime to air on television if they cannot secure a deal that pays rights fees or a barter agreement.
In response Consumer Empowerment sold the Kazaa application to Sharman Networks, headquartered in Australia and incorporated in Vanuatu.
Evie was from Woodstock, Illinois, and lived in North Riverside, Illinois, with her owner's family, where she died in 1993.
Costs for do-it-yourself (DIY) partial decorative (plaid or polka dot) vinyl treatments ranged from $10–20.
Recalls In 2001, 150,000 Snuggle "Teeny Bean Bears" included with the sales of the product were recalled because the pom-pom of their nightcaps could detach and pose a choking hazard to babies.
List of ceremonies Awards See also About You Awards References External links Official website (in French)
Scholarly interpretation states that it implies that a woman is dependent upon her husband to do things for her.
block, segments with Moose and Zee were temporarily shown to ease the transition, but all of the characters' branding was removed on March 1, 2012.
Security Upon download, BitLord will recommend other programs, such as Opera and Avast Antivirus, both of which are often bundled with software such as BitLord and might be considered unwanted by the user.
Retail media networks now offer accountability in providing audience measurement techniques in the same way as traditional broadcast or print media.
Whipple was accompanied by a stock boy named Jimmy, played by Adam Savage, known decades later for the television series MythBusters.
The image of the frog has introduced issues regarding the First Amendment freedom for commercial speech and has caused the beverage to be banned in numerous states.
A television commercial known for its usage of the "EDSA-pwera" wordplay was released on January 9, 2024 in various television channels in the Philippines advocating for charter change or reform of the 1987 Constitution of the Philippines.
An animated trailer for the initiative was also created, with the character voiced by actor Christian Spinosa.
Typically, a TMC product is rather small - perhaps 4 to 12 pages frequently with several pre-printed inserts.
While memorable, the DAGMAR approach fails to provide concrete guidance on how to link advertising objectives with communications effects.
The glass was covered with see-through graphics (one-way vision window graphics) using a clear PET window film which was part screen printed and part spray painted.
He supported numerous Indiana Republicans, including Brian Bosma, and also donated money to the House Republican Campaign Committee of Indiana.
Emakina has won multiple awards for projects in digital marketing, websites, e-commerce, applications and communication campaigns for clients like BIC, My Way, and Jaeger Le-Coultre and was elected Horizon Interactive Agency of the Year.
Application Share of wallet is commonly used in B2B context, and in the finance, banking and retail sectors, to describe share-of-customer.
WJOB has been a member of the Purdue University Sports Broadcast Network since the 1960s and continues to broadcast Purdue football and men's basketball games in season.
Microscopic glass beads are used to prevent an adhesive from functioning until the user is ready (the beads allow the material to be repeatedly lifted and reapplied during the wrapping process, without compromising the longevity of the wrap).
Publication history Florida Citrus's mascot had previously been Ollie the Orange, who debuted in 2011 as an anthropomorphic orange in a superhero costume.
Release After Kubelka delivered the finished version to Schwechater, they stopped payment to him, ended their relation with him, and destroyed the company's print of the film.
It is due to its political associations that this campaign is considered primarily an educational advertisement instead of a public service announcement.
Before settling on the title A Colour Box, Lye used the titles Cheaper Parcel Post and La Belle Creole.
"On the depression north of Lake Ontario, the Great Blue Harris, or in Latin, Attila Foraqueensparkicus, has stirred up a hornets' nest with its fellow creatures living off a diet of bologna and tuna.
Then in March 2008, residents of the town of Masquefa restored the bull once again, only to see it ultimately demolished by the independentists less than a year later, on 24 February 2009.
In 1980, WHJB upgraded its transmitting facilities again, increasing its power to 2,500 watts daytime and 500 watts at night, which it kept until shortly after its sale in 1996.
They also released a new interview with the expedition's leader Sivert Klevan, who was 84 years old at the time of the interview.
According to Dmitry Kaminskiy, managing partner of Deep Knowledge Ventures, the motivation for using VITAL was the large number of failed investments in the biotechnology sector and the desire to avoid investing in companies likely to fail.
On July 2, 2012, it was announced that Saban Brands, through Kidsco Media Ventures, would begin programming the block, which would be relaunched under the name Vortexx.
Major players are already looking for innovative ways to appeal to customers, as evident by the recent renovation announcements from food service giant, McDonald's Corp.
Quenching The Light (2008) is a PSA-like documentary short film that highlights the persecution of Baháʼís in Iran.
Industry organizations such as the Electronic Retailing Association, which represents infomercial marketers, often try to minimize the impact of these rule changes.
Recognition In November 2014, Quantcast ranked Sovrn as the world’s fourth-largest publisher network, reaching a monthly global audience of over 423 million people and more than 700 million monthly unique visitors.
Lunden said further that, "Less than a month after browser-toolbar and mobile startup Conduit merged its Client Connect division with Perion, the company is making another change to its business.
According to its TV ads and website, the world's first employee pricing program for customers was instituted by The Brick, a Canadian furniture store.
(Represented by: (CPC x CTR) x 1000 = eCPM.) This monetization model is used by Google to rank site-targeted CPM ads (in the Google content network) against keyword-targeted CPC ads (Google AdWords PPC) in their hybrid auction.
Popularity Typically tradio and similar programs are only heard on small, rural stations; KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is the largest market with a tradio program, airing weekly on Saturday afternoons.
"Boogaloo", also known by its original title "Fyra Bugg och en Coca Cola" ("Four Buggs and a Coca-Cola"), is a Swedish-language song.
In October 2022, activist Regina Mishchenko was arrested in Saint Petersburg for wearing a T-shirt with the slogan "Khuy Voyne." In January 2023, she was issued a fine of 50,000 rubles, at the time equivalent to US$587.12.
Florian is associated with brewers because of a legend in which he miraculously stopped a fire with a single pitcher of water, thus the frequent depiction of him holding a pitcher.
In 2019, the bunny spoke for the first time, with its voice being provided by American voice actor and writer Miles Luna.
AdAway requires in the actual version 5.10.0 either root access (because the hosts file is in the system partition) or the use of a local VPN on non-rooted devices, which is provided by AdAway itself.
The bituminous coal was quarried as blocks and dressed as stone using 65 tons of coal from the nearby Winifrede Seam.
Similarly, in 2018, the Kentucky Farm Bureau, a farmer lobbying and insurance organization, acquired naming rights to the University of Kentucky's new baseball park.
Shortly thereafter, on 27 July 2006, it was announced that Sharman had also settled with the record industry and motion picture studios.
Large mortars allow some individuals with several pestles to stamp the material faster and more efficiently.
Some have gone so far as to argue that interactive marketing and advertising techniques will not work unless practitioners "step into the shoes" of and approach the Internet from the consumer's vantage point (Cross & Smith, 1997).
Their primary focus is not always to inform the public, but persuade them into some sort of action for mainly political reasons.
More over, the low cost, high return on investment, and wide availability shows that mobile advertising is likely to expand.
See also CAID (technology) Online advertising in China References External links China Advertising Association – official website
Kumamon has gained popularity as an internet meme when images of the character, usually around a large bonfire, were captioned with text reading "Why?
The platform was primarily designed for efficient web-based deployment of various types of application software.
This reality was paved by models such as Kate Moss and Stella Tennant, who provided a more consistent look for the runway.
Cost per order, along with cost per impression and cost per click, is the starting point for assessing the effectiveness of a company's internet advertising and can be used for comparison across advertising media and vehicles and as an indicator of the profitability of a firm's internet marketing.
Tools Tools used to create an editorial calendar vary from paper to standalone tracking software integrated into publishing tools.
Forte Consultancy says: "The percentage of a customer's spend that is with a given company over a given amount of time.
The ad, written by screenwriter Billy Ray, was intended to spur theater attendance following the COVID-19 pandemic by highlighting the "magic" of the movie theater experience.
Additionally, the song charted at Svensktoppen for six weeks between 19 April and 24 May 1987, topping the chart all six times.
Indeed, in 1997, the FCC set maximum prices based on an "average implicit fee" formula which set the prices considered by cable programmers to be remarkably high.
Development Juiced was originally intended to be published by Acclaim Entertainment, and released for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and PC in late 2004.
Other notable campaigns have been for Sprint, Crocker Bank, Perrier, Alamo Rent A Car, Henry Weinhard's, E & J Gallo Winery (specifically Bartles & Jaymes), and the 15-year running Jared Fogle campaign for Subway.
The protagonist ultimately decides to stop George from driving drunk, telling him, "crash here!" The advertisement ends with a voiceover saying, "Stop a mate from driving drunk.
Description The advertisement features a woman wearing red lipstick and looking at the reader while holding a Del Monte ketchup bottle with the appearance of being about to open it.
The single-player campaign is interconnected with a multiplayer component, the Arena, to decide player rankings.
Broadcasting The award show is broadcast by ProSieben, Germany's second largest privately owned television network, and streamed on About You's social media channels.
The unusual marketing strategy of free licensing has also contributed to Kumamon's commercial success; Kumamoto Prefecture grants usage rights for free to any individual group as long as the products promote goods and services from the prefecture.
The character is currently used by the Northern Territory Department of Transport to promote road awareness to children.
Just recently, Zen, JV, LLC entered into a Chapter 11 bankruptcy procedure where it sold some of its assets, including its job board technology operated by Monster Worldwide, to MCB Bermuda, Ltd, a subsidiary of Bold Holdings LLC.
However, according to the Journal of Interactive Advertising 2001, interactive advertising also has some properties that expand the range of potential objectives and that improve advertising effectiveness.
Vendors of pay-per-call advertising attribute the growth of the model to the popularity of smartphones and claim that it reduces the costs of on-line click fraud.
In 2002, 4 million stuffed bears distributed with Snuggle fabric softener were recalled when they were determined to create a choking hazard to babies, because the eyes and nose could come off easily.
Quantitative measurements are based on data and numbers that are gathered from studies based on how people react to the advertisements .
Burnett, along with Wired writer Chris Kohler and Joystiq writer Ross Miller, found it to be a clever ad, with the latter calling it a "fun surprise".
History Background According to a 2010 national health survey, more than 60 percent of Chile's population suffers from excessive weight.
Then called Yūma-chan, it made its first official appearance at the 3rd National Sports Tournament for Intellectual Disabled Athletes in 1994.
White claimed that he'd "missed, at the most, 12 days of work since 1946." Career In 1946, he joined his father's billboard business, Whiteco Advertising Company, and took over in 1952.
For example, the veteran populist anti-EU campaigner Farage's tweets in 2017–2018 used a lot of colloquial expressions and catchphrases to resonate the "common sense" with audiences.
Ambient advertising, as per many advertising agencies, also refers to advertising at locations where people spend more time.
See also Health effects of sun exposure Skin cancer in Australia References External links Slip, Slop, Slap, Seek, Slide – Cancer Council (Australia) Slip, Slop, Slap and Wrap – SunSmart New Zealand
These spots are often the length of the song with an introduction and disclaimer at the end of the song stating the artist, album title, and releasing label, and come under titles such as CD Preview.
Verk ran the publication from 2003 - 2008 during which tome he introduced several new profitable events and published products including Boards U, The Boards Creative Workshops and a Post Production Resource Guide.
The infrastructure supporting context awareness, including sensors and analytics systems, also facilitates the collection of audience insights.
A new wrinkle is adware that disables anti-malware and virus protection; technical remedies are available.
Researchers have become increasingly interested in whether or not AI is capable of changing human behavior.
In the 1964 United States presidential election, the Republican presidential nominee Barry Goldwater challenged Johnson.
Career Professional fashion model Dulatov's eldest brother, Djibril, who had established a successful career as a model for prestigious fashion brands such as Lavin, Gucci and Alexander McQueen, played a pivotal role in shaping the paths of his younger brothers.
Similarly, "The Salience of Marketing Stimuli" (2012) highlights that varied marketing stimuli enhance brand recall and reduce ad fatigue by keeping the audience intrigued.
Usage The Q Score is a metric that determines a "quotient" ("Q") factor through mail and online panelists who make up representative samples of the population.
Around 26 percent of listeners report increased interest in a product or business when it is endorsed by a DJ.
The unique connection is a viral video advertisement (released April 13, 2015) produced by Malling Publications for Pandora, a jewelry brand.
Whipple watching?" In 2000, Procter & Gamble presented Wilson with a lifetime achievement award as a subsequent advertising campaign began for Charmin that features Charmin Bears, a family of anthropomorphic cartoon bears.
Starting on July 1, 2006, Chrysler reinstituted the Employee Pricing Plus program to run from July 1 to July 31.
Beginning The roots of the newspaper business in Nigeria can be traced to the middle of the nineteenth century.
Factors that moderate order effects There are factors that can moderate the occurrence of order effects.
IHOP and "IHOb" In 2018, American restaurant chain IHOP, an acronym for International House of Pancakes, briefly changed their name to IHOB, or International House of Burgers.
This provides the ability to advertisers to maintain brand awareness created by other advertising effoy activities.
Juiced is a racing video game by British studio Juice Games for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 2, Xbox, and mobile phones.
It was simply not reasonable to deny the company from selling their product, especially because it would primarily be marketed in liquor stores, where children are not even allowed to enter.
Sponsorships and advertising The game has received substantial attention for its aggressive advertising campaign, most notably its sponsorships of a number of YouTube and Twitch content-creators as well as celebrities such as Ronda Rousey, leading to it becoming an Internet meme.
Results indicate that the timing of the call may not have an effect on the general voter population, but that the timing can affect certain populations and get certain populations to vote at higher rates.
They are involved in a range of processes, like post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, genomic imprinting, and regulating the chromatin state, and thereby the expression, of a given locus.
In the study, Elowitz and Leibler generated figures showing oscillations of repressor proteins, using integration and typical parameter values as well as a stochastic version of the repressilator model using similar parameters.
RNA splicing was discovered in the late 1970s through the study of adenoviruses that invade mammals and replicate inside them.
d5SICS is an artificial nucleoside containing 6-methylisoquinoline-1-thione-2-yl group instead of a base.
In October 2015, founder Paul Woods resigned and the company announced they were laying off 25% of the staff and changing focus to “water treatment and carbon capture" and possibly return to fuels in the future.
North America maintained its position as a market leader, while the Asia-Pacific region emerged as the fastest-growing market due to increased investments and a rising prevalence of chronic diseases.
Through this pore, ions flow down the potential and electrochemical gradient rapidly (>106/second), the maximum flux limited by the geometry and dimensions of the pore.
In 2019, he delivered the Humanists UK Voltaire Lecture; the lecture formed the basis of his future book How to Argue With a Racist.
He was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 2013 for "contributions in control theory and networked control systems with applications to aerospace engineering, robotics, and autonomy".
While application of exosomes is still in its early stages, approaches are being explored to produce exosome-like nanovesicles (ELNs or artificial exosomes) to overcome these challenges.
Examples There are many conceptions of programmable matter, and thus many discrete avenues of research using the name.
History The ETC Group, known until September 1, 2001 as the Rural Advancement Foundation International (RAFI), has historical roots linked to the National Sharecroppers Fund which was established in the 1930s.
If one of these can be substituted by another stop codon, then that codon can in principle be "reassigned" (along with requisite tRNA, release factor and enzyme modifications) to code for a novel amino acid without affecting other existing codings.
Awards 2009 – Pfizer Award in Enzyme Chemistry 2009 – Irving Sigal Young Investigator Award 2003 – Sloan Foundation Fellow == References ==
These labeled NTPs are helpful because of their application in molecular biology labs where they do not have the capacity to handle radioactive material.
He has served as Chair of the Division of Engineering and Applied Science (2000–2005) and Director of Information Science and Technology (2006–2009).
Bahadur stated that by using molybdenum as a cofactor, the Jeewanu showed capability of reversible photochemical electron transfer, and released a gas mixture of oxygen and hydrogen at a 1:2 ratio.
They were developed long before humanity had any knowledge of the existence of the microorganisms involved.
His PhD investigated the role of the gene CHX10 on eye development, with focus on the effect of mutations in this gene on the development of eye disorders.
Polka is involved in creating debate amongst early-career scientists about the financial, historical and political influences on academic research.
Recombinant DNA (rDNA) molecules are DNA molecules formed by laboratory methods of genetic recombination (such as molecular cloning) that bring together genetic material from multiple sources, creating sequences that would not otherwise be found in the genome.
In an endeavour to express ethical ideas in an artistic format, Häyry produced in 2013 – with Tuija Takala, Corky Laing, and Lasse Väyrynen – a concept album on the ethics of genetics, Playing God—The Rock Opera.
Its goal is to enable businesses to outsource DNA manufacture, design, and testing and accelerate the development of DNA-based technologies in the UK.
As of 2018, most laboratory biosafety guidance is based on preventing exposure to existing rather than new pathogens.
This group aims to develop the standard in a way that is open and democratic in order to include as many interests as possible and to avoid domination by a single company.
He currently remains a principal investigator at the UCLA Metabolic Engineering and Synthetic Biology Laboratory, where he heads the Liao Lab, but is on leave to serve as president of AS.
His group discovered that interactions between Notch receptors and ligands in the same cell (cis interactions) can generate mutually exclusive "sender" and "receiver" states or allow autocrine signaling.
For many viruses, viral RNA is infectious when introduced into a cell (during infection or after reverse transcription).
In a mouse model of Huntington's disease, it has been shown to reduce oxidative damage to mitochondrial DNA, and to maintain mitochondrial DNA copy number.
Kane '24 Award, which is given in recognition of exception service and accomplishments in the area of fundraising.
Rutherford was the Podcast Editor and the audio-video editor for the journal Nature until 2013, being responsible for all the publication's published audio, video, and podcasts.
For this work, he has received multiple awards including the NSF CAREER Award, DOD Era of Hope Scholar Award, CRI Lloyd J Old STARS Award, Pershing Prize.
To date, research in synthetic biology has typically relied on trial-and-error approaches, which are costly, laborious, and inefficient.
Qi led the development of the first catalytically dead Cas9 lacking endonuclease activity (dCas9), which is the basis for CRISPR interference (CRISPRi).
Synthetic recording systems and differentiation dynamics A major challenge in biology is to recover the dynamic histories of individual cells.
Projects Martian Rose is an installation which carries the romantic and destructive idea of giving a rose to Mars.
in physics and math from Tsinghua University, China, Master in physics from UC Berkeley, and PhD in bioengineering from UC Berkeley.
The group also aims to develop and improve the design standard over time as the field of synthetic biology reflects this development.
Synthetic microbial consortia or Synthetic microbial communities (commonly called SynComs) are multi-population systems that can contain a diverse range of microbial species, and are adjustable to serve a variety of industrial, ecological, and tautological interests.
She directed the New York City Biotechnology Initiative, a state funded program to improve the region's ability to grow biotechnology companies by fostering relationships between industry and academia.
Metallopeptides (also called metal-peptides or metal peptide complexes) are peptides that contain one or more metal ions in their structure.
Up to 4 different quadruplet orthogonal tRNA/tRNA synthethase pairs can be generated in this manner.
A common feature of biopunk fiction is the "black clinic", which is a laboratory, clinic, or hospital that performs illegal, unregulated, or ethically dubious biological modification and genetic engineering procedures.
In 2016, their name changed to Algenol Biotech LLC and the company added other algae-based sustainable products to its portfolio.
One of the major outstanding questions in the study of lncRNAs is whether effects on chromatin state or gene expression adjacent to a lncRNA locus is due to functional, sequence-specific mechanisms of the lncRNA itself, or due simply to the act of transcribing the lncRNA.
In 2006, Discovery Science produced the six-episode TV series Men in White, in which three scientists, Rutherford, Basil Singer and Jem Stansfield, applied science to the solution of everyday problems.
Beyond the medical applications, such O2 binding agents could be supply oxygen for welding and other uses.
Graphene has also been shown to be a suitable material for electronic skin applications as well due to its stiffness and tensile strength.
As the "read" phase of the Human Genome Project was completed in 2004, this new effort was dubbed Genome Project-Write.
The methods were guided by codon scrambling algorithms to reduce repetition in DNA sequences while conserving important information for recombinant protein synthesis.
Before CRISPR-Display, such studies were challenging due to low throughput, and inability to distinguish lncRNA function from other confounding factors like cryptically encoded peptides or functional DNA elements.
For example, in the neural plate of the embryo this system operates to generate a population of neuronal precursor cells in which NeuroD is highly expressed.
He was admitted to the medical school at University College London, but transferred to a degree in evolutionary genetics, including a project under Steve Jones studying stalk-eyed flies.
This area of study has been noted with the potential to increase the efficiency of the production of certain biomolecules and naturally occurring materials, such as enzymes.
Some Food Regulatory Agencies such as the FDA do not require the labeling of precision fermented foods as GMO since they are produced by, but do not contain the genetically engineered organisms.
He is known for his research in synthetic biology, particularly in the areas of RNA engineering and the development of low-cost, cell-free biosensors for environmental monitoring.
It is a multidisciplinary research field at the intersection of virology, synthetic biology, computational biology, and DNA nanotechnology, from which it borrows and integrates its concepts and methodologies.
Active roles & collaborations New Algae For Food Forum The New Algae For Food (NAFF) Forum is a platform focused on the establishment of a repository, including microalgae and macroalgae (seaweed), about “Algae consumption in Europe before 15 May 1997”.
The clusters, designed by faculty from across the institution to address major global challenges, are part of President Philip Hanlon's vision for strengthening academic excellence at Dartmouth.
Per the agreement, Tesoro will purchase crude oil from Sapphire Energy's Green Crude Farm for processing into fuel at its west coast refineries.
Unconventional types of artificial cells Electronic artificial cell The concept of an Electronic Artificial Cell has been expanded in a series of 3 EU projects coordinated by John McCaskill from 2004 to 2015.
A key idea that motivated the development of the Registry was to develop an abstraction hierarchy implemented through the parts categorization system.
Combining sequences into genetic constructs: The purpose of this group of features is to streamline the process of combining genetic parts into designs compliant with a specific design strategy.
This is particularly useful as it allows for adhesion at sites of inflammation where there are considerable shear forces.
He has been very active during Covid19 pandemic in media promoting scientific information on the virus and vaccination.
Approaches In one school of thought, the programming could be external to the material and might be achieved by the "application of light, voltage, electric or magnetic fields, etc." (McCarthy 2006).
Prior to joining the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, he was a project leader at Dow Chemical.
The Registry of Standard Biological Parts conforms to the BioBrick standard, a standard for interchangeable genetic parts.
The Registry allows exchange of data and materials online which allows rapid re-use and modifications of parts by the participating community.
In this application, an “exon plate tectonics” design strategy was devised to assemble “equivalent” elements of structure (continental plates) with variability in the junctions linking them (fault lines) to explore global protein space.
Glutamate is produced by some Micrococcus species, and some Corynebacterium species produce lysine, threonine, tryptophan and other amino acids.
Agriculture and food Agricultural biotechnology focused on developing climate-resilient crops and sustainable food production methods.
The effect of internal (stem-loop) insertion size on dCas9 complex was assessed using INT-like constructs with cassettes of PP7 stem loops with a size range from 25 nt to 247 nt.
Research on Mirror Life and Bioethics In December 2024, Adamala co-authored a perspective article in Science calling for a moratorium on the creation of fully synthetic mirror-image microorganisms.
He was a founding member of the Department of Defense's Defense Innovation Advisory Board as of 2016.
Early life and career He was trained as a mathematician at the Institut Henri Poincaré and a physicist at the École Normale Supérieure.
Activated charcoal has the capability of adsorbing many large molecules and has for a long time been known for its ability to remove toxic substances from the blood in accidental poisoning or overdose.
"Generating a synthetic genome by whole genome assembly: φX174 bacteriophage from synthetic oligonucleotides".
Bass and John Varley; Greg Bear's Blood Music; Bruce Sterling's Schismatrix and Autonomous by Annalee Newitz.
Research Zhang's lab is focused on using synthetic biology to develop technologies for genome and epigenome engineering to study neurobiology.
They are man-made analogues of natural ion channels, and are thus also known as artificial ion channels.
Rutherford is a frequent guest on the Little Atoms radio chat show, and he has also acted as a science advisor on programmes such as The Cat in the Hat Knows a Lot About That!, and the film World War Z.
Polka's work on R bodies was discussed in the American magazine The Atlantic, and covered by the American Chemical Society.
This contributes to an increase in the tensile strength of the substrate, as well as its out-of-plane deformation and stretchability.
The Bermuda Principles is a private accord declaring that all DNA sequence data should be released in publicly accessible databases within 24 hours after generation.
"Solid-liquid phase-change pumping" Shape-changing and locomotion of solid objects are possible with solid-liquid phase change pumping.
It is derived from cyberpunk, but focuses on the implications of biotechnology rather than mechanical cyberware and information technology.
By transport characteristics An ion channel can be characterized by its opening characteristics, ion selectivity, and control of flux (gating).
Work Hessel was an early supporter of, ambassador to, and judge at the international Genetically Engineered Machines iGEM competitions at MIT, helping it grow in its early stages.
Structure-based combinatorial protein engineering (SCOPE) is a synthetic biology technique for creating gene libraries (lineages) of defined composition designed from structural and probabilistic constraints of the encoded proteins.
The Foundation focuses on improving in areas of Technology, Law, Education and the Global Community as they apply to synthetic biology.
The goals behind this project are to insert the key genes of the passenger pigeon into its closest living relative, the band-tailed pigeon, to create a functional reconstruction of the species that can fulfil the original's ecological niche in the Eastern United States.
They argued that the field, while promising, requires a comprehensive risk assessment before advancing further.
Bahadur's later work on the Jeewanu also detected the presence of amino acids in peptide form and sugars in the form of ribose, deoxyribose, fructose and glucose, as well as nucleic acid bases (DNA and RNA building blocks) including adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymine and uracil.
developed a stretchable and flexible material based on 3,6-di(thiophen-2-yl)-2,5-dihydropyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole-1,4-dione (DPP) and non-conjugated 2,6-pyridine dicarboxamide (PDCA) as a source of hydrogen bonds (Figure 4).
The European Union, for example, initiated preparatory work on the proposed EU Biotech Act, which aims to streamline regulatory processes while addressing dual-use risks and data privacy concerns, particularly in AI-driven healthcare.
The most promising approach to change the code is the reassignment of seldom used or even unused codons.
Their design, a tablet featuring a touch screen, GPS, and wireless communications was similar in many regards to the iPad as released by Apple in 2010.
Modifications of organic field-effect transistors (OFETs) have shown promise in electronic skin applications.
Neutrophils Through the mechanism of chemotaxis, neutrophils are typically found migrating toward sites of inflammation that are secreting heightened concentrations of inflammatory chemical signals.
Novel Insights into Gene Expression Regulation during Meiosis Revealed by Translation Elongation Dynamics.
Potential applications include enzyme development for plastic degradation, novel disease treatments, and tools for exploring protein evolution.
Another critical aspect of Keasling's work was discovering the chemistry and enzymes in Artemisia annua responsible for synthesis of artemisinin.
Biofuel One of the more salient applications of engineering behaviors and interactions between microbes in a community is the ability to combine or even switch metabolisms.
Such molecules could act as computational devices within the cell, detecting states and determining whether or not to carry out a particular action.
In May 2011, the company announced a multi-year agreement with The Linde Group to co-develop a low-cost system to deliver CO2 to commercial-scale, open-pond, algae-to-fuel cultivation systems, now underway at the Green Crude Farm.
Helioculture uses photosynthetic organisms, but is otherwise distinct from the process that makes fuel from algae.
SCOPE was then used to construct a synthetic enzyme lineage, which was biochemically characterized to recapitulate the evolutionary divergence of two modern day enzymes.
In 2015 Rosser was awarded funding to develop a new research centre for synthetic biology in Edinburgh, jointly funded from the 2012 Autumn Statement, the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, and the Medical Research Council.
Yi Tang is a biochemist and professor in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry as well as the Parson's Family Foundation Professor in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Other researchers expressed skepticism, arguing that current technical limitations make the creation of such organisms unlikely in the near future.
In 2013, he was an invited speaker at the QED conference in Manchester, and at the 2013 North East Postgraduate Conference, and delivered the 11th Douglas Adams Memorial Lecture at the Royal Geographical Society in London for Save the Rhino International.
In 2017, Hessel co-founded Humane Genomics, Inc., which uses synthetic virus engineering to target cancer cells.
In November 2012, the company announced a partnership with the Institute for Systems Biology to further the scientific research and development of algae biofuels.
Patent 4,418,691 (December 6, 1983) was cited by the National Inventors Hall of Fame as the key patent describing the invention of a process for regenerated skin (Inductees Natl.
References External links Official website Sascha Pohflepp anthropocene-curriculum.org Sascha Pohflepp hkw.de Sascha Pohflepp rca.ac.uk Sascha Pohflepp: Power Points of the Far Future www.hmkv.de
Krishnamurthy 2006 Seasonal variation in major metabolic products of some marine Rhodophyceae from the south east coast of Tamil Nadu.
Career Gaucher was hired as an Associate Professor by the Georgia Institute of Technology in 2008 before moving to Georgia State University where he is currently a professor.
Heineken Prize for Biochemistry and Biophysics, Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences The 2009 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine (shared with Elizabeth Blackburn and Carol W.
The most common application of recombinant DNA is in basic research, in which the technology is important to most current work in the biological and biomedical sciences.
Many of the estimated 1.2 million bacteria species that remain have yet to be cultured and identified, in part due to inabilities to be cultured axenically.
External links XB1: The First Conference on Xenobiology Archived 2019-04-03 at the Wayback Machine May 6–8, 2014.
This means that a portion of cell can have a theoretical mass transfer that is a hundredfold higher than that of a whole artificial kidney machine.
Takano is developing robotic systems to explore the potential biosynthetic pathways, testing thousands of new compounds every year.
Its production doesn't impact agricultural crops, land, or water, since algae are grown in salty, non-potable water, using lands not suitable for agriculture, and require only sunlight and CO2 to grow.
Initially funded by the government and other partners for five years, the organization was intended to become self-sustaining by 2018.
The Gaucher group conducts basic and applied research at the interface of molecular evolution and biology.
History SynbiCITE was created in 2013 after a UK-wide competition to find the most suitable host university with the best strategic plan.
Biopunk is concerned with synthetic biology, and often involves bio-hackers, biotech megacorporations, and oppressive organizations that engineer DNA.
The benefit of using protein is that the protein metabolism is much faster than fatty acid metabolism such as algae biofuels, which leads to higher production.
Engineered Macrophages According to Dooling, macrophages usually mistake cancer cells for normal body cells, so they leave them alone.
Typically secondary metabolites are not produced in the presence of glucose or other carbon sources which would encourage growth, and like primary metabolites are released into the surrounding medium without rupture of the cell membrane.
Improving research culture Polka is on the steering committee for Rescuing Biomedical Research, an initiative to discuss solutions to problems addressed in the April 2014 PNAS article "Rescuing US biomedical research from its systemic flaws".
Synthesis of the first complete gene, a yeast tRNA, was demonstrated by Har Gobind Khorana and coworkers in 1972.
Artificial Repressilators Artificial repressilators were first engineered by Michael Elowitz and Stanislas Leibler in 2000, complementing other research projects studying simple systems of cell components and function.
Its core significance lies in the fact that a virus can no longer be considered a biologically extinct species as long as its complete genome sequence is known and a susceptible host cell capable of supporting its replication is available.
Therefore, smaller oligonucleotides (around 5-20 base pairs) are combined to create genome-size oligonucleotides.
NASBA combined with aminoallyl-UTP labeling is very useful for many different areas of microbial diagnostics including environmental monitoring, bio threat detection, industrial process monitoring and clinical microbiology.
Around this time, she worked closely with the Synthetic Biology Working Group at MIT and made the decision to move her research group into Synthetic Biology.
When combined with an extracellular matrix, the cells can be arranged into complex structures, such as organs.
A somewhat related NSF consortium Synthetic Biology Engineering Research Center (SynBERC) constructed and distributed wetware.
Artificial Antigen Presenting Cells Artificial Antigen Presenting Cells (aAPCs) are polystyrene beads with stimulating receptor ligands.
Food and drink However, not all synthetic nutrition products are animal food products – for instance, as of 2021, there are also products of synthetic coffee that are reported to be close to commercialization.
References External links Website of Action Group ETC Pat Mooney on the Dangers of Geoengineering to Combat Climate Change - video report by Democracy Now!
in biochemistry from the University of California, San Francisco under the supervision of Dyche Mullins in 2012.
The Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology is working towards a fully automated process for producing artificial skin.
Wang Professor of Advanced Biotechnology in the Department of Biological Engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
Biopunk (a portmanteau of "biotechnology" or "biology" and "punk") is a subgenre of science fiction that focuses on biotechnology.
First synthetic bacteriophage, φX174 (2003) – Smith, Hamilton O.; Hutchison, Clyde A.; Pfannkoch, Cynthia; Venter, J.
The Algorithm Design Manual is widely used as an undergraduate text in algorithms and within the tech industry for job interview preparation.
Training OIs involve the process of biological learning (BL) as opposed to machine learning (ML) for AIs.
In 2017, PLOScast interviewed Polka about her work which contributes to the changing way that science is published.
The company purchased an 81-acre site (33 ha) in the Imperial Valley in Southern California to produce algae fuel for their collaboration with Exxon Mobil.
In addition to the formation of the three germ layers themselves, these often generate extraembryonic structures, such as the mammalian placenta, needed for support and nutrition of the embryo, and also establish differences of commitment along the anteroposterior axis (head, trunk and tail).
The team was funded in December 2004 by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to develop the microbial production process.
In food technology, the commercial viability of cultivated meat and precision fermentation improved.
The registry offers many types of biological parts, including DNA, plasmids, plasmid backbones, primers, promoters, protein coding sequences, protein domains, ribosomal binding sites, terminators, translational units, riboregulators, and composite parts.
Synthetic biology benefits from better models of how biological molecules bind substrates and catalyze reactions, how DNA encodes the information needed to specify the cell and how multi-component integrated systems behave.
Working first with Mildred Cohn, Marianne Grunberg-Manago and Ionel Solomon in nuclear magnetic resonance, Danchin became an experimental microbiologist in the early seventies.
Transformation-associated recombination The goal of transformation-associated recombination (TAR) technology in synthetic genomics is to combine DNA contigs by means of homologous recombination performed by the Yeast Artificial Chromosome (YAC).
By decoupling the evolution of user-selected genes from the host genome, OrthoRep enables the continuous in vivo evolution of proteins and enzymes, accelerating the discovery of new biological functions and the study of sequence-function relationships.
Polka was co-chair of the American Society for Cell Biology's COMPASS (Committee for Postdocs and Students) during 2013 and 2014.
Tal Danino is a synthetic biologist and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering at Columbia University.
Sascha Pohflepp (30 January 1978 – 17 June 2019) was a German artist, designer, and writer whose work focused on the role of technology's influence on the environment, often collaborating with scientists and other artists to explore this theme.
Overall, Orgo-Seq provides a quantitative and validated framework for investigating driver genes and their role in neurological and neurological disorders.
It began publishing accepted articles in the Fall of 2011, with the first full monthly issue published in January 2012.
Bioplastic As an answer to the increase in use of non-biodegradable, oil-based plastics and its subsequent accumulation as waste, scientists have developed biodegradable and compostable alternatives often called bioplastics.
In patients where doxycycline, azithromycin and moxifloxacin all failed, pristinamycin has been shown to still be able to eradicate the infection.
The most important methods are the maintenance of constant power consumption per unit of broth and the maintenance of constant volumetric transfer rate.
esmGFP is an artificial green fluorescent protein designed using the AI model ESM3, developed by EvolutionaryScale.
Christopher Voigt is an American synthetic biologist, molecular biophysicist, and engineer who is professor and department head of Biological Engineering at MIT.
External links Institut de Biologie Physico-Chimique Reference classification of adenylyl cyclases "Creation of the HKU-Pasteur Research Centre".
The thicker membranes and arrangement of hydrophobic chains of polymersomes greater stability and drug retention within the body.
She has previously worked in the Institute of Biotechnology at the University of Cambridge researching the biotransformation of cocaine and explosive material.
In particular, Brand's work in de-extinction has been characterized as "playing god" and criticized for taking time and money away from traditional conservation efforts.
He is an associate professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington.
In January 2013, the Feng Zhang lab at the Broad Institute at MIT published another method in Science, having further optimized the sgRNA structure and expression for use in mammalian cells.
As one of the main challenges facing electronic skin development is the ability of the material to withstand mechanical strain and maintain sensing ability or electronic properties, recyclability and self-healing properties are especially critical in the future design of new electronic skins.
She is the first female graduate from Columbia College to be hired to a full-time faculty position since the College became coeducational in 1983.
Numerous techniques have been invented for the finding and identification of promoters and terminators in order to overcome this constraint, including genome mining, random mutagenesis, hybrid engineering, biophysical modelling, combinatorial design, and rational design.
History Rapid advances in the ability to genetically modify biological organisms have advanced a new engineering discipline, commonly referred to as synthetic biology.
He became an associate professor in 1997, a professor in 2000, and the Everhart Professor of Control and Dynamical Systems in 2006.
Awards & Judging in the iGEM competition Each participant receives a participating certificate (see fig.
The Italian edition was published by Aboca, 2014, under the title Vita e Natura - Una visione sistemica.
The authors stated that the RNA-like material detected in the Jeewanu protocells support the RNA world hypothesis.
In 2009, Continental Airlines also tested one of Sapphire Energy's green crude blends.[7] Sapphire Energy provided Green Crude oil for the first flight's using algae derived jet fuel that was refined by UOP into jet fuel for two test flights – Continental Airlines 737-800 and Japan Airlines 747-300.
The healing abilities of the hybrid composite are suspected to be due to the hydrogen bonds between the PDMAA chains, and the healing process is able to restore initial length and recover conductive properties.
coli metabolism may allow for a diverse array of metabolic products such as various butanol biofuels, terpenoids, and fatty-acid derived fuels.
He is a member of the International Panel of Experts on Sustainable Food Systems, and led their Long Food Movement project.
discussed their findings, saying "It is consequently possible that the degrading capacity of the bacteria could be increased only through co-cultivation, which shows that these bacteria naturally coexist and are dependent on each other for the utilization of environmental substances.
By using NFTs the project wants to ensure that the users submitting their genetic data are able to receive direct payment for their contributions.
Examples One example of open synthetic biology is when DNA2.0 donated several artificial gene sequences into an open-access repository run by the BioBricks Foundation.
The organism with the smallest known set of genes as of 2013 is Nasuia deltocephalinicola, an obligate symbiont.
Bioinformatics in OI OI generates complex biological data, necessitating sophisticated methods for processing and analysis.
The former approach has the disadvantage that there may not be enough skin available, while the latter suffers from the possibility of rejection or infection.
Although direct labeling of dNTP is the quickest and cheapest method of fluorescent labeling, it is disadvantageous as the sequence allows for only one modified nucleotide for use.
In addition, he is the: Founding Member of the National Science Foundation-funded Synthetic Biology Engineering Research Center (SynBERC), renamed the Engineering Biology Research Center (EBRC).
Seven working groups have been defined: “macroalgae production” (WG1), “microalgae production” (WG2), “algae for food” (WG3), “algae for feed” (WG4), “ecosystem services & bioremediation” (WG5), “materials, chemicals, bioactives & algae biorefining” (WG6), and “youth & entrepreneurship” (WG7).
Due to their close transcriptomic resemblance to human fetal brain data, the regulatory landscape of cells within cerebral organoids can inform on the underlying regulatory mechanisms governing human brain development.
Because BioBricks do not have this overlap, this method requires PCR primers to create overhangs between adjacent BioBricks.
Frank Wolff was told he would be a journalist; Jorgen reveals his true plan to steal the rocket when on the Moon.
3 #276–301 – ISBN 978-1955929271 Gold Digger FREDeral Reserve Brick – ISBN 978-0930655730 Gold Digger Platinum, vol.
Willow is an American fantasy adventure television series based on and serving as a sequel to the 1988 film Willow.
The first major group of settlers arrived in the Chester area from Massachusetts in 1761, and Oak Island was officially surveyed and divided into 32 four-acre lots in the following year.
I've been called everything from a treasure hunter to a thrill seeker, but personally I like to think of myself as a professional explorer.
Nick Cowen from Drowned in Sound gave a positive review to the song, appreciating its narration, intense mood, and guitar work.
See also List of Time Team episodes Time Team Specials Time Team Others References Bibliography Feinman, G.
Indiana Jones and the Pyramid of the Sorcerer – Ryder Windham Indiana Jones and the Mystery of Mount Sinai – J.W.
A Day in the Life of a Desert Rider – This chapter begins with the introduction of Islam to the Holy Land by Muslim conquests.
Allamistakeo responds that no one during his time entertained the fantasy that the universe was ever created, but that it always existed, although, some believed that humans were created by spontaneous generation in a polygenic manner in different places.
This time, she accepts, seizing the chance for life by fusing herself with them, and becoming a Malevoiy.
Although her age is given only in the first book, Amelia Peabody would have been seventy years old—and Emerson 67 or 68 — by that point in history, making their often physically trying acts of heroism less and less credible.
Searching a hidden valley leads to the group discovering a soul cage, which Seteki is using to harness the power of trapped souls.
Picard and Riker's confrontations with the conspirators, combined with the efforts of his protégées Worf, Ro, and Raffi, reveal that a rogue faction of Changelings have infiltrated the highest levels of Starfleet and are interested in restarting the Dominion War.
When Laetitia, who also overheard the conversation, confronts the two men, Geralt throws her out of the plane.
It was later released by Echo Bridge Home Entertainment on June 5, 2007 as a three-disk pack with Raging Sharks (2005), and Lifepod (1993).
He is a dedicated family man with a wife named Fayah and nine children, all of whom seem to have a fondness for Indiana (at one point they all surround him to save him from a group of Egyptian collaborators and SD agents who have their guns drawn on him).
The following is a list of episodes of Time Team, a British television/web programme about archaeology, that aired on Channel 4 from 16 January 1994 to, 7 September 2014.
The differences between the two Syaoran's paths lead into both of them becoming their own separate beings.
Premise The primary character of the series is the young but precocious Pangi who accompanies his uncle, the Professor Gu-Bon, on various foreign trips for historical studies.
Anderson commentator Fred McNamara praises the attack on Thunderbird 1 noting that it shows that "I.R themselves aren't infallible allow a grounded sense of drama and empathy for the jeopardy International Rescue throws itself into".
The brands Frute Brute (originally Fruit Brute) and Yummy Mummy have had more limited production and availability.
The character first appeared in Justice League of America #10 (1962), created by Gardner Fox and Mike Sekowsky.
Director Mike Newell later said the production of the film was "utterly terrible" although he "adored" working with Heston.
In the film, Hercules has given up his days of traveling and has settled down to spend some time with his family.
Robinson is a patron of older people's charity Alive, saying that the organisation is "at the forefront of promoting stimulating activities which help improve the quality of life of people in care".
Apple advised that applications with heavy user interaction but low computational needs (such as word processors) would be best suited to use with Rosetta, and applications with high computational needs (such as games, AutoCAD, or Photoshop) would not.
Captain America #268 (1982), from Marvel Comics advertises and features freelance artist Steve Rogers and his girlfriend Bernie Rosenthal emerging from a Brooklyn Movie Theater, discussing the impact of Indiana Jones and Raiders of the Lost Ark.
In Amazons Attack!, Wonder Girl and Supergirl attempt to negotiate an end to the war between the Amazons and the United States, but inadvertently make things worse when the president of the United States is killed.
The player oversees the trawler and its crew, and their funds, and successful finds result in experience points that can be used to improve the skills of crew members and more money which allows the player to buy better ships.
Skeleton Man is a 2004 made-for-tv action horror film directed by Johnny Martin and starring Michael Rooker and Casper Van Dien.
The episode satirizes digital alterations made to films such as the original Star Wars trilogy and E.T.
The novel is not only a rousing fantasy adventure story, but a philosophical exploration of the relationship between material reality and the abstract concepts through which humans struggle to understand it.
set the brains of all the good people along the coast in a ferment." There are "rumours on rumours" of recovered treasure, including coins with Moorish inscriptions which "the common people looked on with superstitious awe, regarding the Moorish letters as diabolical or magical characters".
This version is an archaeology professor with a longstanding fascination towards Amazon culture who suffers from empty nest syndrome due to Vanessa being away at college.
Rosetta 2 In 2020, Apple announced Rosetta 2 would be bundled with macOS Big Sur, to aid in the Mac transition to Apple silicon.
The film was released on March 10, 1957 by Allied Artists and is the forty-fourth film in the series.
While various projects going through varying stages of development, a continuation was released as a television series titled, Ash vs.
The hunchbacks hold Inés and an archeologist friend of Mantua and try to force Basilio into staying.
I would think the first step might be to set up books 1–6 as Web pages and see what kind of interest they generated.
External links The Ship of Ishtar title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database The Ship of Ishtar at Project Gutenberg Australia The Ship of Ishtar public domain audiobook at LibriVox
All seasons were filmed in widescreen 16:9 but mainly shown in pan and scan 4/3 as are most of Fireworks Entertainment productions from 2000.
References External links Highlander III: The Sorcerer at Box Office Mojo Highlander III: The Sorcerer at IMDb
Uchuujin!?, "An Alien!?") - 14 July 1984 Sandy's Birthday Surprise (消えたパパ Kieta Papa, "Papa Disappeared") - 21 July 1984 She Loves Me Not (ライバル出現 Raibaru shutsugen, "A Rival Appears") - 28 July 1984 Sandy's Three Wishes (三つのお願い Mittsu no onegai, "Three Wishes") - 4 August 1984 Sandy's Stardom (大冒険!
Series overview Episodes Season 1 Season 2 References External links Official website Official PBS Time Scanners website
Because the two worlds now exist as completely separate dimensions, Pinky's magic is no longer able to bridge the ties that formerly bound them, meaning Blinky and Pinky must now forever remain in their home separate from Earth.
Challenger was based on Doyle's physiology professor, William Rutherford, an adventuring academic, albeit a zoologist/anthropologist.
In Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation (1999), the first depiction of a young Croft, she is accompanied by her mentor, Werner Von Croy.
Note References External links Anime official website (in Japanese) How to Keep a Mummy (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
She believes it smells bad and makes people "dumber than they already are." Randy tries to convince her of the positive benefits of marijuana, but the obstinate Shelly wishes it were illegal again.
Burrows begins to notice strange 'pallid men' where they live in Highfield, and then promptly goes missing, Will and his friend Chester go search for him.
Plot summary While working in Egypt for Sir Harold Gregory, archaeologist Thomas Ashley meets Lucien Mallory and his servant Cooper, who have visited Gregory’s camp after the discovery of a mummy.
Due to time constraints, Sergeant Shek of the Special Duty Unit recruits mercenary Andy Lo, known as the "Eagle Hunter", to retrieve it.
This was followed by series 22 in 2023, with a new special episode, "Digging Band of Brothers", which was presented by a returning Tony Robinson.
In other media Television Live action Doctor Fate and his wife Inza Nelson appear in the Smallville two-part episode "Absolute Justice", portrayed by Brent Stait and Erica Carroll respectively.
He feels Jaime should enjoy his childhood for as long as he can, and should attempt to further his education.
Angus believes it is connected to the local legend of the d'Ampton "worm", a mythical snake-like creature from ages past said to have been slain in Stonerigg Cavern by John d'Ampton, the ancestor of current Lord of the Manor, James d'Ampton.
A chain of events lead off to Abel finding what he most desired, and a lesson that preaches: freak or not, we are all human.
He is first shown talking to Nygma in an Egyptian-themed restaurant, and Nygma tells him that he is angry and jealous that he has not received a visit from Lex Luthor (who has been visiting various villains across the DC Universe as part of a nefarious plan he is setting up).
The confirmation of Tera's existence and her potential ability to return and invade Western civilization, shattering pre-existing beliefs about religion and science, reflects the anxieties brought on by the end of imperialism.
Various types of merchandising have been made based on Syaoran's appearance including plush, keychains and patches.
The characters of iZombie first appeared in a short story in the first House of Mystery Halloween Annual (2009).
Taylor recently received a Visiting Professorship in 'Archaeology in the Media' from the University of Exeter.
See also Time Team Digs Time Team Extra Time Team Specials Time Team Others References External links Time Team at Channel4.com The Unofficial Time Team site Fan site
The new additions to the Halloween-themed breakfast cereals, will also be integrated into cereal-marshmallows in the shape of these pets.
The Mummy's Foot (French: Le Pied de momie) is a horror short story by the French writer Théophile Gautier, first published in 1840.
It is set in Italy in the 1980s in a small town on the Tyrrhenian Sea and stars Josh O'Connor as a British archaeologist-turned-grave robber with a gift for divining the locations of Etruscan tombs.
Vampire Part 2) is a 1986 Hong Kong comedy horror film directed by Ricky Lau, starring Yuen Biao, Moon Lee and Lam Ching-ying, and produced by Sammo Hung.
External links The Mummy's Foot at Project Gutenberg The Mummy's Foot public domain audiobook at LibriVox Your Show Time: The Mummy's Foot at IMDb
The similarities between characters like Volo and Cogita from Pokémon Legends: Arceus have been the subject of discussion.
Probe teams can sabotage and steal information, units, technology, and energy from enemy bases, while diplomacy lets the player create coalitions with other factions.
Her supervisors only rarely complain, since Fox usually stores the relics she finds in the university museum for safekeeping.
He also appeared in the award-winning Horizon documentary Joey, and in the title role in the BBC production of The Miracle of Brother Humphrey.
Later, Aranjo infiltrates the local museum after hours, where he kills Carol and Rick Haley, both colleagues of Kay's.
Concurrent with the Darth Vader series, in 2016 Aphra also appeared in the Rebel Jail arc of the Star Wars comic, which comprises Star Wars issues #16–19.
government property we'd be going after it." Other disregarded theories contend that the hoard is a hidden stash of gold buried by Jesse James, or loot taken by Black Bart, who was known for robbing stagecoaches.
The breast, then, may be understood as a more subtle reference to Mother Earth than the nude it replaced.
He buried "so much silver and gold and some other artefacts who can survive moisture", after which the river was returned to its original course.
As society moves away from a rural and agricultural existence, fertility is given less and less importance.
The following is a list of episodes of the Podcast version of the British television/web programme about archaeology, Time Team.
The character is presented in some respects as Savage's opposite number, mirroring a number of his qualities.
iZombie, originally titled I, Zombie, is a comic book series created by writer Chris Roberson and artist Michael Allred, published by DC Comics' Vertigo imprint beginning in 2010.
The South Pole has a giant cone-shaped protrusion ("Big Horn") surrounded by six smaller ones ("Little Horns"), which are thought to be part of Rama's reactionless space drive.
Kovacs and Schneider rescue Tanya Wardani, the archaeologue who coordinated the gate's discovery, from a prison camp.
Chapter titles See also List of film serials List of film serials by studio List of lost films References External links The Fortieth Door at IMDb
While walking around Leicester looking for the ancient site of Greyfriars, and seeing apparitions of Richard, she gets a strong feeling that an "R" painted on a car park is the site of Richard's grave.
See also List of highest-grossing documentary films References External links Mysteries of Egypt at IMDb Mysteries of Egypt at Box Office Mojo
That same year, he organized an exhibition of his work, Fifteen Locations, which took place simultaneously at fifteen museums and galleries worldwide; he also participated in the seminal exhibition of Conceptual art at the Seth Siegelaub Gallery, New York.
The different reactions of politicians, clerics, religious extremists—some prepared to use terror to gain their ends—to the religious, cultural and political implications of the find, make life difficult and dangerous for the investigators as they seek to unearth the truth.
He is known to be short-tempered and irascible, but his family and friends hardly ever take notice, knowing he means no harm.
Development Inspirations In 1996, MicroProse released the lauded Civilization II, designed by Brian Reynolds.
Bug-a-Booo has also appeared in a few of the Monica Toy episodes, with one episode under the title Penadinho Toy, starring Bug-a-Booo, Skully, and Vic Vampire.
During the trolls' session, Aradia uses her time travel powers to create a huge number of doomed counterparts, who sacrifice themselves in the trolls' session, and continue to appear in the Dream Bubbles.
It was produced by the Shaw Brothers Studio in collaboration with an Italian company, and filmed on location in Hong Kong and Spain.
Plot The film's plot revolves around the coming of the Apocalypse, heralded by the imminent liberation of the Antichrist from the depths of Hell through a certain gateway at the close of one full millennium.
Ambitions introduces new professions that can be actively controlled by the player, unlike the careers in the base game.
Scalps is a 1983 American horror film directed by Fred Olen Ray that concerns a vengeful Native American spirit.
Sakura losing her memories of Syaoran and struggling to once again develop feelings for him is one of the main themes of Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle, showing the value of relationships throughout the series.
The police investigating the truck crash discount Paul's comment that the driver's blood is literally on Quintillus's hands, and Inspector Rinaldi orders the museum closed until the murderer is caught.
Davis portrays aspiring magician Willow Ufgood who teams up with disaffected warrior Madmartigan (Kilmer) to protect young baby princess Elora Danan from evil queen Bavmorda (Marsh).
Production The location footage for the series was filmed across the UK and Ireland, including Hampton Court Palace, Jorvik Viking Centre, Stonehenge and Mellifont Abbey.
Series outline The preamble and voiceover from the opening titles tell the premise of the show: "My name is Judson Cross.
After reading Stoker's The Lair of the White Worm at a friend's suggestion, Russell decided to write a film adaptation, despite being "disappointed" by the novel: "There are touches of the master there.
Shout Factory's 2019 Blu-ray release includes an audio commentary by Tom Weaver, David Schecter and Jan Alan Henderson, plus other extras.
Progressive death metal/rock band Opeth took its name from the word "Opet", which in the novel is the name of a fictional Phoenician city in South Africa and whose name is translated as "City of the Moon".
Younger members of Time Team who made regular appearances include Jenni Butterworth, Raksha Dave, Kerry Ely, Brigid Gallagher, Rob Hedge, Katie Hirst, Alex Langlands, Cassie Newland, Ian Powlesland, Alice Roberts, Faye Simpson, Barney Sloane, Tracey Smith, and Matt Williams.
Complicating matters further, they inadvertently destroy what they believe to be the mummy of Rootentooten.
Scarlet Scarab is the name of three characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
249" has an atmosphere reminiscent of Poe's "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" (1841), a story which Doyle loved.
The original paper has already disappeared, presumably stolen by an Ultra, and the investigators have only a copy to work with.
In some stories In some of the stories, they have to deal with the fact that vampires, ghosts, zombies and mummies are no longer appreciated as characters of horror films.
In addition to references to death and a return to the earth, Adler points to imagery that suggests birth from an Earth Mother, including the "distinctly labial" drapery.
His conflict with Cleopatra, prior to the events of the novel, began when he refused her demand to create an “immortal army” for Mark Antony.
In February 1972, Franken Berry cereal included an indigestible pigment that turned some children's feces pink, a symptom sometimes referred to as "Franken Berry stool".
In late 2010, Square Enix announced a franchise reboot titled Tomb Raider; the new Lara Croft would be a darker, grittier reimagining of the character.
Syaoran befriends Masayoshi although they will never see each other again with Clamp noting that the teenager aids Masayoshi in helping to understand what is strength without behaving cocky about it as he instead feels strength is just the determination he possesses.
She has traveled to Africa to scold her son for running off to look for the wiseman stone when his wife and daughter are waiting for him to come home.
Despite an acute fear of heights, he is skilled at mountain/rock climbing, hang gliding, and parachuting - static line, ripcord and high-altitude military parachuting.
Using a six-person archeology crew, the player navigates to the coordinates of a sunken ship and sends four divers to explore the wreck.
Caroline Epps (S2E04 and S2E12) Portrayed by Christie Lynn Smith Caroline was serial killer Howard Epps' wife, and later his murder victim.
Scarman soon arrives at the lodge, and Laurence attempts to rekindle his brother's humanity, but gets strangled instead.
Synopsis Martial arts expert Ho Chiang journeys to America's Wild West on a life-or-death mission: he must retrieve his late uncle Wang's missing fortune and return it to a powerful Warlord (the original owner of the fortune) within a year, or his family will be executed.
Cast Omar Sharif - Grandfather Kate Maberly - Granddaughter Timothy Davies - Howard Carter Julian Curry - Carnarvon Release The film was released June 2, 1998 and grossed $40,593,486 from 27 theatres in the United States and Canada.
[and] arrive with resources that the archaeologists already on the case usually can’t afford and specific questions that, if answered, will advance the understanding of the site." A second season was announced on October 18, 2011, scheduled to shoot during the summer of 2012 and to air in 2013.
Then we sat down together and pulled it apart, talked about what was working and what wasn't, and she sent me off with marching orders to write the next draft.
It received mixed reviews from critics but has attained cult status, with praise towards Kumar's psychiatrist character, Balan's portrayal of Avni and Manjulika, and the film's music.
Hawkgirl felt that she was not the first person Hawkman would turn to in a moment of crisis, treating her as a damsel in distress incapable of holding her own, and degrading her position in both the eyes of the Justice Society of America and in their partnership.
Returning home with the sarcophagus, Edgar prepares to hunt down the werewolf he blames for the death of his son and first wife.
Most of his writings are still unknown; in an interview with Stoker's grandnephew, this is attributed to the fact that "Stoker never had time to perfect his style in the numerous novels and stories he wrote...most of the rest of his product remains unreadable and inept.
Later that evening after fending off another attack by the Medjai, he watches as Evelyn accidentally awakens Imhotep through reading from the Book of the Dead.
In 2016 and 2017, Robinson played the antagonist 'Daddy' in Man Down alongside Greg Davies and Roisin Conaty.
Isabella Rossellini, Alba Rohrwacher, Carol Duarte, and Vincenzo Nemolato appear in supporting roles.
Due to a determined effort to hire local crew in senior roles, 17 of the 29 production departments were led by Welsh citizens.
The resulting string of code was then engraved on a steel cylinder and encased within a replica of the treasure chest, which was sold at an auction in November 2014.
The plot drew inspiration from real-world history such as the artifact in question being one of the primary targets for the Nazis during World War II.
Riders of the Cactus is a 1931 American Western film directed by David Kirkland and starring Hal Taliaferro, Buzz Barton and Fred Church.
He possesses a fragment of a carved stone block which gives the location of the sunburst when placed on a stone map of the ancient tomb complex, housed at a local museum.
The film went through several other drafts, including a group of escaped convicts holding Ash captive in the cabin while searching for buried treasure.
Capcom produced two video games based on the 1988 film, one being an arcade game and the other being an action role-playing game for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
With the onset of World War II and Doc's aides often tied up with war projects, Doc began to call on Pat's help, much like Rosie the Riveter stepped up to male roles.
The Library of Congress includes the film among the National Film Preservation Board's updated 2019 list of "7,200 Lost U.S.
In the novelization, Chattar Lal is thrown into the lava pit while in the film he is injured but apparently does not die, whereas in Lego Indiana Jones: The Original Adventures, he is blown apart by a blast of heat caused by Indy and Short Round.
In February 2017, Anne Rice and her son Christopher Rice announced their collaboration on Ramses the Damned: The Passion of Cleopatra, a sequel to The Mummy.
The now free Jevlen is on the brink of becoming a peaceful society when the deactivation of JEVEX causes the Ents to attempt an escape from the Entoverse.
Plot summary Chance Henry's archaeologist father accidentally awakens an evil mummy who steals his soul.
The movie functions as a sequel to a previous movie named Salak Milyoner starred by the same cast of "brothers".
They restore Brink and Robbins to life and cure Brink of his addiction to the crystals, though this leaves him as an elderly man.
Publication history The character was originally slated for a September 1982 publication date by DC Comics.
Fictional character biography Post-Zero Hour introduction Helena and her daughter Cassie/Wonder Girl are introduced into the DC Universe following the Zero Hour: Crisis in Time!
When the witch Circe kidnapped Julia during the War of the Gods storyline, Pythia took it upon herself to rescue Julia, calling Julia her daughter.
During the production of Return of the Jedi in 1982, Lucas approached Warwick Davis, who was portraying Wicket the Ewok, about playing Willow Ufgood.
Sex symbol Lara Croft has become a sex symbol for video games, despite Toby Gard's intentions for her to be sexy "only because of her power".
Appealing to Urzkartaga's ego, Ballesteros makes the case that the previous Cheetahs have failed in their actions and that a male Cheetah could be superior.
Nahalla formed an offshoot cult from the Ghost Dance, which centered on the notion of a world soon to be inhabited only by Native Americans and their ancestors.
Ambrus won a Gulbenkian scholarship to study printmaking and illustration there for three years (1957–60).
The books are set in a not-too-distant future where humans have colonized a number of other planets across the galaxy, thanks in part to technological assistance from an ancient alien race, the Ildirans.
Although The Dig was announced for release in Q2 1992, it ultimately did not launch until December 1995.
Kane led his followers through the desert and into the cave, because he believed that the end of the world was coming, but then kept them trapped and captive there to slowly die with him after the day of his prediction came and went.
McCarthy of the California firm Kagin's completed the initial evaluation of the coins and assessed the significance of the find.
Many game features from Civilization II are present, but renamed or slightly tweaked: players establish bases (Civilization II's cities), build facilities (buildings) and secret projects (Wonders of the World), explore territory, research technology, and conquer other factions (civilizations).
After Winston dies when the plane crash lands in Hamunaptra, he battles Imhotep and saves Evelyn but struggles to defeat him due to being invincible.
On December 6, 2019, the movie debuted at Toho Cinemas in Hibiya, Tokyo where a stage greeting of cast was held that included Kiyoshi Kobayashi who previously voiced Daisuke Jigen.
She enlists the help of her grandfather, Michael Bear, a Mohawk shaman who works as a foreman at the depository plant, in order to gain access to the facility.
He realises too late that Kara tricked him, and that the ritual enabled her to completely take over Margaret's body.
Plot summary The story is of a young man, Abel Dandy, who is born in a freak show to his "freak" parents.
In May 2019, it was voted 19th in a Radio Times list of Britain's 20 favourite sitcoms by a panel that included sitcom writers and actors.
Unfortunately being pretty green about that end of the business we also gave them, the distributor, the trims and outs and the result was their "improved" version.
This includes fictional major characters and fictional minor characters created for Star Trek, fictional characters not originally created for Star Trek, and real-life persons appearing in a fictional manner, such as holodeck recreations.
The Inspector - Typically working for Scotland Yard, the inspector appears anonymously or as Pry, Brown, or Gray in related official media.
Morgan about writing the trilogy series of Takeshi Kovacs: Altered Carbon, Broken Angels and Woken Furies: Richard K.
Ancient verdani thorny tree battleships arrive after a long journey across the universe to aid Theroc, while the Roamers' plan to seed aquatic planets with wentals to rejuvenate the elemental race comes to fruition.
References External links El kárate, el Colt y el impostor at IMDb Antonio Margheriti - Official Site Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine Shaw Brothers History
In 2018, IDW Publishing released a five-issue limited series adaptation of the novella, retitled Bubba Ho-Tep and the Cosmic Blood-Suckers.
The book builds tension through the device of letting Kenton's tie to the ship periodically become so weak that he falls back, unwilling, to his New York home.
Duke University biblical scholar, archeologist, and Bernice and Morton Lerner Emeritus Professor in Judaic Studies Eric M.
Thorn Drumheller wraps the last two dragon eggs in a spell that will prevent himself and Khory Bannefin from giving them up, even at the cost of their lives.
Troubled by the case, he turns to Father Lavelle who commits suicide because he cannot reconcile the scientific evidence with his faith.
Musicperk.com wrote Sahasam is not really a commercial album but it definitely suits the film's genre.
Vicky Walsh argued for the existence of "exo-artifacts" using the principle of mediocrity and the Drake equation.
Throughout the television series Fox's clothing is often tight fitting and revealing which makes her easily identified as a feminine sex symbol.
Shortly after the Beta Kids and Trolls enter their session, Grimbark Jade teleports Dirk far away, causing him to miss out on the events of Aranea and Her Imperious Condescension's battle, in which most players die.
She took the impending birth of fellow Alphan Snowbird's first child as her opportunity for revenge on him.
At any moment the ship may fade from reality, and both Kenton and the reader will be imprisoned in the mundane world of the everyday." Publication history Six installments in Argosy All-Story magazine, November 8 - December 13, 1924.
The Brigade heads off to find the portal back to the mortal realm, sharing some light banter, comparing their fight with Seteki to their past adventures.
Case in point: When the legendary Challenge of the Super Friends DC cartoon aired back in the day, WW's counterpart on the Legion of Doom was Cheetah, confirming her archnemesis status".
Back at the museum, Paul continues researching Nahalla's history by reviewing historical compendiums, and identifies the woman he kidnapped as Melissa Stuart.
A jointly-authored third novel in this series, Ramses the Damned: The Reign of Osiris, was released on February 1, 2022, two months after Anne Rice's death.
Numberblocks: In an episode about doubling numbers, the characters explore a cave, culminating with Eight grabbing a golden statue and running out of the cave from a boulder.
Later, in 2006, the film was released on DVD in a boxed set called The Classic Sci-Fi Ultimate Collection, which featured 4 other films (Tarantula, The Incredible Shrinking Man, The Monolith Monsters, and Monster on the Campus).
Perhaps most significantly, the elixir renders any organic substance invulnerable and self-sustaining.
The film is a topical satire of hypnotist Morey Bernstein's best-selling book The Search for Bridey Murphy and its film adaptation.
His cockiness is crushed by the omniscient narrator, who informs him that Squidward's book was out-of-date and that the new edition explains he is mostly immune to the Dutchman's magic, but not completely; while he is immune to the hypnosis spell, he is not immune to getting hurt.
Morin obtains an order from the Ministry of Culture to be allowed to dig and hires Baptiste to lead an archaeological excavation of the field.
William Stine The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles: Field of Death – by Les Martin The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles: Safari Sleuth – by A.L.
The dragon fire reduces Nockmaar to molten rock, eliminating the Malevoiy threat and leaving flowers that resemble the triumphant heroes.
During the attack the party begins to experience visions and emotions from the dead Martians, bringing them to the brink of insanity.
The character was also a favorite role of Rhys-Davies, who spoke of trying to convince Spielberg to include the character in another film by citing it as the "common factor" driving the success of the first and third films.
He continued to live in the capital, but spent many childhood holidays in the country, where he learnt to draw horses.
Best known for its language-learning products, in 2013, the company expanded beyond language into education-technology with its acquisitions of Livemocha, Lexia Learning, Fit Brains, and Tell Me More.
Philippa Langley makes a cameo appearance at the end of the film as Woman Attending the Re-Burial of Richard III (uncredited).
The company reissued the score on CD as a wide release in June 2019, but with the previous CD's four bonus tracks omitted.
The film received an A (adults only) certificate from the CBFC for strong violence, with a final runtime of 229 minutes after some violent scenes and profanities were cut.
At school on Monday, Timmy's teacher doesn't believe his story until the police show up with Carl and arrest the principal for being the counterfeit gang's leader.
Mathews sends Pierce to Denver to assassinate Alan Berg, a Jewish talk radio host who frequently spars on-air with antisemites that call into his show.
After the first series was recorded in June and July 1991, Bottom was first announced in August, when, in an attempt to attract viewers, the BBC reported that it had commissioned over 400 hours of new television programming for the upcoming autumn schedule.
Flag Day is a 2021 American drama film directed by and starring Sean Penn based on Jennifer Vogel's 2004 memoir, Flim-Flam Man: A True Family History.
Content The act distinguished two varieties of treason: high treason and petty treason (or petit treason), the first being disloyalty to the Sovereign, and the second being disloyalty to a subject.
Some artists and professional graphic designers suggested that the CDS would make it more difficult for them to use Photoshop to produce images that used currency in lawful ways.
Although we still don't know if this is correct, or how subsequent generations of forensic tracking technologies might work, it is probably safest to assume that all modern color laser printers do include some form of tracking information that associates documents with the printer's serial number.
After the arrest of Edouard Carouy, in September 1911, the commune broke up and the inhabitants went their separate ways.
The following year, Mészáros approached Prince Lajos Windischgraetz with a plan to counterfeit the French franc.
Vincent Cortez, about whom little is known, also becomes enamored of Virginia and she accepts his affections, much to the consternation of Stuart.
In 1986, Japanese game developer Konami created two versions of The Goonies for the MSX (The Goonies) in Japan and Europe, and Family Computer (The Goonies) in Japan.
Synopsis Following his military discharge, Tom Martinez returns home to Philadelphia and learns his wife Susan is pregnant.
Mohan Thomas is a Delhi-based business tycoon with a strong political clout and a clear sociopathic agenda.
Peoni had no purpose regarding Dorsey's possession because Regno was free to do whatever he wanted with the bills.
In 1924, Reis reached out to business contacts of his to assist him in his "confidential mission" for the Governors of the Bank of Portugal.
Felix Lok as YT Dominic Lam as painting shop owner Chan Mong-wah as Law Sam Javier Hernández and Diego España Production Production for Project Gutenberg began in Hong Kong on 15 May 2017 where a blessing ceremony was held.
The most obvious way to detect a plated coin would be if the base metal core was damaged or worn, revealing the base metal.
Stina Chyn of Film Threat rated it 3/5 stars and called it disappointing except for Tony Leung Chiu-wai's performance.
He is captured and interrogated, but the confused policeman insists he is a legitimate officer who drove Lee Man to the police headquarters.
A pitched gun battle erupts amidst cable car rail trestles and bridges, with Craig plunging to her death.
Later that month, Phoenix captured at least three ships and disrupted an American attack on a lighthouse near Sandy Hook.
After Rupniowski died unexpectedly, Machówna returned to Poland and asserted her right to inherit his estates.
At Kurzel's request, Law and Hoult also each spent a day surreptitiously tailing the other to get a feel for the discipline of surveillance.
The dandy roll is a lightweight roller covered with material similar to a window screen that is embossed with a pattern.
The group then holds up an armoured car on a remote California highway, getting away with millions in cash.
Typically, genuine banknotes are printed on paper based on cotton fibers and do not contain the starches that are reactive with iodine.
Activities in North America Naval operations Phoenix saw service during the American War of Independence under Captain Hyde Parker, Jr.
Arrest and flight Duke and Alan Berkman were arrested in May 1985 and indicted on conspiracy, falsification and weapons charges by a federal grand jury, in what became known as the Resistance Conspiracy case.
In an interview with Deadline Hollywood at the 2021 Cannes Film Festival, Penn said that he initially thought that it would be something he might act in, but after trouble identifying the right director he took on the offer as it was a movie that he would have liked to see get made.
Carl Banks tries to print some more money and finds one of the counterfeit plates but can't print any money when his crooked ex-boss and his cops, who are counterfeiters as well, catch him at his base.
During that attack, Phoenix and the other ships easily passed rebel defences and bombarded urban New York for two hours.
The reverse legend “Britannia” might be replaced by something like “Briton’s Happy Isles.” Counterfeiters often made their coins look quite worn, some would not add a date or only put a partial date on the die.
Some types of embossing, such as that used to make the "cross on oval" design on early stamps of Switzerland, resemble a watermark in that the paper is thinner, but can be distinguished by having sharper edges than is usual for a normal watermark.
Prior to the festival, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer acquired North American distribution rights to the film, with plans to release it later that year through their joint venture, United Artists Releasing.
In 2002, the European Union introduced the bimetallic 2 euro coin that is quite similar to the Thai ten-baht coin (first issued in 1988) in weight, size and appearance.
Briand's proposal called for the unification of anti-counterfeiting laws, police and judicial cooperation and the creation of national anti-counterfeiting centers within the borders of each signatory.
The most frequently occurring ruler on the moulds is Septimius Severus who appears on 36 impressions.
Simran unexpectedly visits to give Arun offerings of the prayer she conducted for Mohan, testing his condition.
Saleem "Kurla" in April 1998 followed by Mohammad Jindran in June 1998 and Majeed Khan on 1 March 1999 were shot dead.
Clair McKelway published in The New Yorker and later collected in McKelway's book True Tales from the Annals of Crime & Rascality.
Smith's father, retired US Marine Corps Colonel Bill Smith has no faith in the United States Government freeing his son.
For the film's English title, Woo asked Nansun Shi for a phrase that better reflected the film's themes of redemption and courage, shortening her suggestion of "For a Better Tomorrow".
Several North Korean diplomats have been arrested on suspicion of passing the counterfeit bills, but have used diplomatic immunity to evade charges.
The first supernotes printed this line too distinctly, rendering the counterfeit more authoritatively printed than the original.
It was a slip of paper with verses from the Bible; but only yesterday, by accident, the paper became wet, revealing hidden writing that looks like the plans of a harbour.
Bottom is a British sitcom created by Rik Mayall and Adrian Edmondson that ran for three series on BBC2 from 1991 to 1995.
A proposed spin-off series featuring various Bottom characters, Hooligan's Island, was cancelled in 2013 before production.
Counterfeiting of valuable antique coins is common; modern high-value coins are also counterfeited and circulated.
Arun then got a phone call from Pavitra, who found Mohan's missing money in Simran's possessions, proof that her stepmother murdered her father, and is bringing it to the police.
In response, Jacques Foccart, Charles de Gaulle's chief adviser for African matters and co-founder of the Service d'Action Civique militia, alongside Pierre Messmer, drew up covert plans to destabilise Touré's government.
Aside from the Kingston Bruces, the Betts, Lady Laura, and St Vincent, the only other guest was Mr Rennie, paying court to Miss Kingston Bruce.
Arun realizes that the body is Mohan's and discovers Bobby, Simran's paramour, hiding in the washroom.
First publication of stories All of the stories in Partners in Crime first appeared in magazines between 1923 and 1928, principally The Sketch magazine.
Some of the situations in the novel closely parallel those of the major novel of Gide's good friend, Roger Martin du Gard, The Thibaults, which was published in installments beginning in 1922.
A firefight ensues between Iqbal's Mujahideen and the BUF (disguised as Pakistan Rangers); Hamza destroys Iqbal's transport with an RPG, has the BUF level the madrassa, and pursues Iqbal to a shipping yard, where they fight until Hamza kills Iqbal in a kerosene tanker explosion.
The organization decides about their: Shape (often hexagon or square), Hologram means visual effects, Letters engraved into each particle.
The attire for Uniformed Division Officers includes standard police uniforms or utility uniforms and ballistic/identification vests for members of the counter-sniper team, Emergency Response Team (ERT), and canine officers.
Bharathchandran is successful in nabbing Antony Ignatius Pimento, Wilfred's right-hand man, and zeroes in on Wilfred.
Their arrangement encodes the serial number of the device, date and time of the printing, and is repeated several times across the printing area in case of errors.
Reception Critical response The Counterfeiters holds a score of 78/100 on Metacritic, based on 23 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
The microprinted characters are used as an anti-counterfeiting feature due to their difficulty in being reproduced while the prominent MP serves as an overt deterrent warning that the item employs microprint.
Counterfeit antique coins are generally made to a very high standard so that they can deceive experts.
Since the chain wires are located on the outside of the laid wires, they have a greater influence on the impression in the pulp, hence their bolder appearance compared to the laid wire lines.
Watermarks have historically been used on postage stamps, currency, and other official documents to discourage counterfeiting.
When these coins were struck, the force of striking would produce a thin shiny layer of silver on the surface, which usually quickly wears away.
They were not restored until 14 July 1975, following the deaths of Charles de Gaulle and his successor Georges Pompidou, and the political departure of Jacques Foccart.
In 2023, Forbes reported that Chinese materials, components, and software were still present in the Department of Defense's supply chain.
Elia's wife Opal is carrying on an illicit relationship with Simpson and informs him that the Colonel murdered his security man, in reality he was murdered by Rick Weston, the leader of Smith's private army.
See also Pornography in the United Kingdom References Continental Film Review (vol 24, no 7, 1977) "Come Play With Me" Whitehouse (no 27, circa 1977) External links Come Play with Me at IMDb Weston Manor Hotel
Gravell Watermark Archive Thomas Gravell watermark collection, Special Collections, University of Delaware Library, Newark, Delaware.
When the euro was introduced into Europe, there were initially very few counterfeits; however, the number increased massively as time went by.
The rest ₹4.5 cores are retained by Prakash with which he starts a very successful Sherwani business in Dubai with his wife and friends as employees.
Using such substrate enriched with microholograms enables producers to implement anti-counterfeit protection at several levels.
After serving her sentence and being sent back to France, Adnet returned to Belgium and reunited with Berré, staying at his place for a time, then joined Godard in Ernonheid in April 1897.
He announced that Guinea’s “deepest desire [was] to remain in the franc zone,” with freedom of capital movement between the two countries.
Counterfeit is a 1919 American silent detective drama film directed by George Fitzmaurice and starring Elsie Ferguson.
A narrator explains the crucial role of paper currency in underpinning trade in the economy, and how the US Treasury Department ensures it is safeguarded by tracking down counterfeiters.
In the fall of 1925, Reis and Hennies made a tour of Angola, buying properties, investing in corporations, and making development plans.
Three Against the World is a 1988 Hong Kong action film directed by Brandy Yuen and starring Andy Lau as a bounty hunter entrusted by his godfather to protect the priceless Koran and outwit a master thief (Teddy Robin) and friendly rival (Norman Chui) who are looking to pinch the scroll.
He studied at Lviv Polytechnic then at Gdańsk University of Technology, graduating with a degree in architectural engineering.
In the early days of July 1776, Phoenix, along with HMS Rose and HMS Greyhound moved toward Red Hook, Brooklyn and anchored at Gravesend, Brooklyn.
Brotherhood of Murder is a 1999 American crime drama television film directed by Martin Bell and written by Robert J.
However, South Korean officials suspect that Ki-seong is really a killer, and they assign Detective Kang Jin-tae from Seoul to watch over Cheol-ryung tightly as they suspect he intends to kill Ki-seong for revenge.
In order to avoid being traced by police while they engaged in illegal activities, Dondon and the other women were only referred to by their surnames.
She was convinced by her sister of the merits of anarchism and, unable to "get used to seeing her family in a situation close to poverty", Adnet joined the anarchist movement.
Meanwhile, a member of the Abbesses group, Louis Boucher, was arrested for counterfeiting in France, which led to the arrest of most of the group's companions.
Sanyasi Naidu sees Prakash and threatens to kill Noor (who is present in his house) if he does not tell the place where the money is.
government believes that North Korean officials have passed off supernotes in various countries and accuses North Korea of producing them.
The actor found the experience of being this character and making the film "amazing" and "intoxicating".
He wrote on the laid paper taken from those old manuscripts with a quill using iron-gall ink, which gave the forged documents an air of legitimacy.
He brought all the files, so that we could devise and create a story with John Higgins that at least had some potency and value.
Although Bojarski was dissatisfied with them, these first notes were very well-printed, on watermarked paper he made himself.
On boarding a plane for Venezuela, which has no extradition treaty with France, he finds Ferdinand waiting for him.
Another Hungarian nationalist counterfeiting plot known as the Franc affair was uncovered in December 1925.
Neocolonial influence also operated through economic and institutional mechanisms grouped under the term “cooperation.” Despite independence, key sectors, including schools, infrastructure, and banking systems, continued to serve French strategic and commercial interests.
Chance, who has earned a reputation for impulsive behavior, vows to his new partner, John Vukovich, that he will take Masters down by any means necessary.
After Vincent admits he is the counterfeiter, however, Virginia brings Stuart to an understanding of the situation and a happy conclusion.
A cliché coin forgery is a type of counterfeit coin (a subtype of fourrée) produced using a genuine coin to impress a design into silver foil.
Counterfeiting of documents Forgery is the process of making facsimiles or adapting documents with the intention to deceive.
Anti-copying marks In the late twentieth century advances in computer and photocopy technology made it possible for people without sophisticated training to easily copy currency.
Caught by the police, he is imprisoned, first in a labour camp, then in Mauthausen concentration camp near Linz.
In the 2005 documentary Oo-Err Missus, Sullivan remarks: "George was a great entertainer, he was a bit of a drunk really, but he was good fun … he said to me: 'I’ve got this old script I’ve had for years', I said: 'give us a look George' and within three weeks we were shooting it".
French policy favored leaders viewed as politically reliable, such as Léopold Sédar Senghor in Senegal and Félix Houphouët-Boigny in Côte d’Ivoire, while more radical or socialist figures, most notably Guinea’s Ahmed Sékou Touré, were subjected to diplomatic pressure and covert destabilization.
Chin Kar-lok as Wong Siu-ming (黃小明), a rookie security guard working for Ng's Insurance Company who Charlie enlists as his assistant.
The anarchist journalist Séverine published articles defending her in the feminist newspaper La Fronde.
Most received light sentences in what is believed to have been a deliberate cover up by Hungarian Prime Minister István Bethlen.
During the Crisis of the Third Century, constant wars required a lot of coins to be produced, leading to heavy debasing of precious metal coinage.
At the time, watermarks were created by varying the thickness of the paper during a stage of the manufacturing process while it was still wet.
The earliest known way of detecting fourrées was through making "test cuts", but later "banker marks" and serrated edges became more common.
After losing a job at a bakery, he begins working as a janitor where he is taunted by some black kids.
Counterfeiters is a 2017 American action film, directed, produced, written by, and starring Bryce Hirschberg.
There, he discovers that Watson is still alive after all and the two team up to defeat Moriarty for good and recover the missing plates.
See also Counterfeit coin problem Counterfeit money Evasion (numismatics) Trevor Ashmore Cliché forgery References Forgotten Coins of the North American Colonies, Amazon Books, John Lorenzo (2017).
The notes were transported from England to Portugal with the help of Reis's accomplices, José Bandeira, who would use the diplomatic advantages of his brother, and Karel Marang, who held a diplomatic passport issued by Liberia.
The streaming release had 9 minutes cut from the film's original theatrical version, making this version's runtime 205 minutes (3 hours and 25 minutes).
Watson is therefore forced to hunt down a drunken Kincaid and clean him up before accepting the case.
Release Theatrical The film was released on 13 January 2024, coinciding with the Sankranti festival along with dubbed versions in Hindi and Tamil languages.
Machówna seduced Stanisław Domaszewski, the starosta of Łuków, and married him as her fourth husband.
The film is based on the true story of Emerich Juettner, an elderly man who counterfeited just enough money to survive and skillfully eluded authorities for ten years.
The moulds include impressions of coinage, spanning over 150 years, of Emperors Trajan to Maximinus II.
Plot Im Cheol-ryung, an officer of a special investigation team in North Korea, barges into a warehouse that prints counterfeit money, where he learns that his superior Cha Ki-seong and his own team are there to steal the master plates to print the counterfeit money.
The counterfeiters have also taken the verger, Thomas, hostage and have threatened to kill him if Shepherd betrays them to the authorities.
It is added to help imaging software to detect the presence of such a document in a digital image, or scanners to detect such a document being scanned.
The folded foil (retaining the coin impressions in register) was then removed and the resulting obverse and reverse impressions were then simply soldered together, usually with tin-lead solder.
The International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency (French: Convention internationale pour la répression du faux monnayage) is a 1929 League of Nations treaty whereby states agree to criminalize acts of currency counterfeiting.
See also Rose engine Security printing Guilloché Spirograph Tusi couple References Further reading Peter Bower, 'Economic warfare: Banknote Forgery as a deliberate weapon', and Maureen Greenland, 'Compound plate printing and nineteenth-century bank notes, in Virginia Hewitt, ed.
Circulating coins For modern coins in general circulation, the most common method of protection from forgeries is the use of bi-metallic coins made of two metals of different color, which are difficult to counterfeit at low cost.
Three of the counterfeit $10 gold pieces, the 1910-P, the 1913-P and the 1926-P, have the omega placed upside down within the upper loop of the "R" of "LIBERTY" in the Native American's headdress.
The first single, "My Father's Daughter" marks the musical debut of Vedder's then-17-year-old daughter Olivia, who also sings lead on the song "There's a Girl".
Section 6 made it a crime to "make, coin or counterfeit any brass or copper money, commonly called a halfpenny or a farthing," to be punished with two years' imprisonment followed by providing sureties for another two years' good behaviour.
Moreover, his expression should have been intense in the second part of the film but that is not so.
They reconstruct the crime: Hollaby's son in disguise lures Sessle away in full view of the other two players on the course.
Possible sources North Korea It has been said that North Korea has passed off superdollars in various countries.
Molina now realises she's been set up for the robbery and the mercenaries are intent on killing her.
Mészáros' case was dismissed by an Austrian court without going to trial, as there were no provisions to punish forgers who did not operate for personal gain.
Plot When a counterfeiter is captured, two of his thugs have to work with two counterfeit money-sniffing dogs named Hercule and Sherlock in order to find the lost cash.
Tiny metallic particles of the size from 40 micrometers to half a millimeter are blended into plastic, paper, foil, etc.
This was echoed by The Monthly Film Bulletin's judgement that "If this premise were to be workable, it would require the casting of an actor who could actually pass as the genuine Holmes.
On 21 November 2006, it was ten members of Dawood Ibrahim's D-Company were arrested by the Mumbai Crime Branch after being extradited from the United Arab Emirates.
The 39 notes were printed from the original plates on one side only, the other side left blank, or with the printed word "specimen".
Hergé retained the anti-German sentiment that he had first considered for King Ottokar's Sceptre through the inclusion of a German villain, Dr.
Because they turned Bojarski in, his two accomplices Chouvaloff and Dowgierd were exempted from punishment.
A blue plaque on the site of the former Moulin Cinema in Great Windmill Street, Soho, commemorates its 201-week run there, which is listed in the Guinness Book Of World Records as the longest-running screening in British cinema history.
Timmy and his two best friends keep him hostage in Timmy's treehouse so that Timmy can take him to school on Monday to ace Current Events.
WIN has traced a series of forged United States dollar bills to an unlikely source – the Reverend Joseph Shepherd, vicar of St David's Church.
She agrees to print the counterfeit money for Jan so the authorities have cause to arrest and prosecute him.
Plot Agent Lam teams up with JJ to track a pair of plates used to make counterfeit American dollars.
The counterfeiting of these notes would cause the inevitable collapse of the economy if they were allowed to circulate.
In 2005 a Pennsylvania children's mental health counselor, Leon Shal, was charged with several counts of fraud in connection with his use of a Shaftesbury University bachelor's degree to obtain employment.
The result was Guest House Paradiso, a spin-off to Bottom featuring Mayall and Edmondson as Richard Twat (pronounced "Thwaite" by the character) and Eddie Elizabeth Ndingobamba, respectively, with Edmondson serving as director.
The film then immediately began production with the first schedule taking place in Hyderabad which was soon wrapped up.
Over a year later, on August 9, 2010, the agency expanded its European involvement by creating its second overseas ECTF in the United Kingdom.
Production The episode is set in December and according to character dialogue it has been 17 years since Clem Mason's death.
Although President Ahmed Sékou Touré campaigned for Guinea’s independence from France in the 1958 referendum, he did not seek a complete break in economic relations with France.
Similarly, pirated goods infringe copyright, typically involving unauthorized reproductions or distributions of copyrighted works, such as movies, music, or software.
In addition, Saward and his associates fenced stolen goods; they helped with the disposal of the stolen gold from the Great Gold Robbery of 1855.
The proposal was heralded by Romanian legal expert Vespasian Pella who shaped it into the draft of the International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency.
The two Adnet sisters formed a group with other young people from Rue des Abbesses and were arrested in early 1894 on charges of criminal association and theft.
Plot Secret Service agent Steve Buchanan and his boss discuss Case 880, which involves fake $1 bills, each with an obvious mistake: Washington is spelled "Wahsington".
French lawmakers revised a February 1926 Czechoslovak proposal to create an international police organization whose members would fight money counterfeiting.
overheated and recklessly violent", dismissing it with sarcasm as not even living up to the "high standard established by Starsky and Hutch".
Produced in 1866 and 1867 by the United States Treasury Department, the shields were sold to banks for $4.50 each, for the purpose of having images of genuine notes available for use in detecting counterfeits.
As evidenced by the success of movies like Jackie Chan's Police Story (1985), directors were transitioning to making action films set in contemporary Hong Kong, with fight scenes containing gunplay and hand-to-hand combat instead of swordfighting.
Ann determines that Mister 880 is Skipper, but she is torn between loyalty to Steve and adherence to the law versus compassion for the elderly man.
Though apparently half-deaf, Shepherd amazes the WIN agents by identifying the make of Loover's handgun merely from the click of its safety catch.
John as Chief James Millican as Olie Johnson Billy Gray as Mickey (uncredited) Larry Keating as James F.
At the trial level, Peoni was convicted as an accomplice to Dorsey's possession of the counterfeit bills.
During the summer and fall of 1925, while he and Hennies toured Angola, he had Bandeira and his own assistant Francisco Ferreira, Jr.
is perhaps the ultimate '80s action/thriller." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 81 out of 100, based on 16 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".
One of the more unique weapons developed at Noborito was the Fu-Go balloon bomb, about 9,300 of which were launched from Japan against the U.S.
Background Counterfeit banknote detection pens are used to detect counterfeit Swiss franc, euro and United States banknotes, amongst others.
Usually the ribbon runs vertically, and is "woven" into the paper, so that it at some places emerges on the front side and at the remaining places at the rear side of the paper.
In Hungary, nationalist groups began forging the currencies of neighboring countries with the tacit support of the Hungarian state.
In 2012, a crossover film titled The King & the Commissioner, with the characters from The King (which was released in 1995) and Commissioner, was released in 2012.
Cast William Baldwin as Tom Martinez Peter Gallagher as Bob Mathews Kelly Lynch as Susan Martinez Stephen E.
These cheques were observed to contain multiple EURion constellations, as shown in the photo at right.
Ferdinand agrees to help but on condition he has half the profits, which sets the other three working on a plot to reduce his take.
However, when the reading public demand to actually see Holmes, Watson hires a washed-up stage actor, Reginald Kincaid, to play the part.
Microholograms are always tailored for a particular organization, such as a bank, government, and premium goods producer.
The evil principal gets away, Carl is set free as the kids tape recorded them running into the counterfeit gang and it proves Carl's innocence.
Police who had arrested him testified that at the time of his arrest he had autograph forgeries in progress at his workshop, including ones for Christopher Columbus, Warren G.
Home media The digital streaming and satellite rights of the film were sold to Amazon Prime Video and ETV respectively.
Teleki claimed that he became aware of the plot in 1922, but stopped being involved after receiving a report from Gerő which claimed that the project was not viable.
Saward required blank cheques and told his accomplices to spread a rumor that they would pay well for stolen cheques; pickpockets usually threw them away as useless.
It stars Jude Law as FBI agent Terry Husk and Nicholas Hoult as Robert Jay Mathews, leader of the Order.
The operation involved several senior figures within the French government, notably Jacques Foccart, Charles de Gaulle’s chief adviser on African affairs.
Shahana Yasmin of The Independent wrote that for some viewers the blend of history and mythmaking creates an immersive patriotic thriller, while for others it blurs the line between history and propaganda.
The act originally envisaged that further forms of treason would arise that would not be covered by the act, so it legislated for this possibility.
The Indian government intends to classify offences involving high-value FICN as terror acts, with an amendment to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
While microphotography precedes microprint, microprint was significantly influenced by Albert Boni in 1934 when he was inspired by his friend, writer and editor Manuel Komroff, who was showing his experimentations related to the enlarging of photographs.
Realising that he should have been honest from the start, Watson decides to write Holmes out of his stories and replace him with a new character, "The Crime Doctor", based on himself.
Instead, he sent his assistant Bob De Moor to Britain in October 1961, where he visited such sites as Batemans and the White Cliffs of Dover, making many observations as to new developments in clothing and architecture.
Optically variable magnetic ink Optically variable magnetic ink (OVMI) has visual effects that are based on the magnetic properties of the ink.
Yuen's artistic talent was eventually recognized, but Lee's artwork was criticized for only imitating the styles of great masters.
In the United Kingdom, a DVD titled A Better Tomorrow Collector's Edition was first released on 30 December 2002.
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 40% of 5 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 5.8/10.
He also created forgeries of letters and other documents purportedly written by famous historical figures, including Christopher Columbus, Leonardo da Vinci, Abraham Lincoln, the Marquis de Lafayette, Martin Luther, Michelangelo, and George Washington.
The makers then on 25 January announced the film titled Saindhav by unveiling the title poster and also a glimpse of it.
Adam Deibert, also known as Prince Adam, is an American multi-instrumentalist whose skills include manualism.
They are also mentioned in Shakespeare plays such as As You Like It (Act V, scene 4), Richard II (Act III, scene 4), Richard III (Act I, scene 1) and Much Ado About Nothing (Act II, Scene 1).
When they are on the middle line (in instrumental music) or above it, they are drawn with stems on the left of the note head, facing down.
She studied piano at the State Music College in Gdańsk and composition at the State Music College in Warsaw, graduating in 1972.
It appeared from 1996 until 2013 and was published by Amsterdam University Press triannually in issues of about 80 pages.
In music composition, fragmentation is the use of fragments or the "division of a musical idea (gesture, motive, theme, etc.) into segments".
It seems that the proportion of the Zalzal fret was a refined one in Bagdad using a large middle tone that came very close to the interval of the small tone, while the Mawsili school used 13:12 instead of 12:11.
As such the performance of the work already took place when Goodiepal created his part of the composition, before handing it over to future co-composers.
In music, the Lydian augmented scale (Lydian ♯5 scale) is the third mode of the ascending melodic minor scale.
So while the rhythm may become too difficult for an untrained listener to fully match, nearly any listener instinctively matches the pulse by simply tapping uniformly, despite rhythmic variations in timing of sounds alongside the pulse.
Transformations may also be applied to simpler or more complex variables such as interval and spectrum or timbre.
Robert Schneider (The Apples in Stereo) – PhD Mathematics, Emory University Tom Lehrer – BA mathematics from Harvard University.
As a principle it exposes a thematic capus (German: Themenkopf) and from there on opens itself to a (mostly) contrapuntal structure, while the reentry of same Themenkopf (often transposed) diverts from the fact that there is no actual closing formula in the Fortspinnungsthema.
Baladi dogs are typically skinny, medium-sized dogs with a short, colored coat of beige, brown, or black.
However through live coding and other interactive interfaces, a fully human-centric approach to algorithmic composition is possible.
Sometimes it is identified with the melody played on the saron (whose range is limited to an octave), but sometimes it is identified with a wider tessitura that is implied by the patterns on other instruments.
"The Development of Computing Technology and Its Influence on Music-Analytical Methods and Encoding: 1940s through 1980s," Music Encoding Conference Proceedings 2017: 131-133.
Walkdowns may be performed by the upright bass player, the electric bass player, the guitarist, or a piano player.
The note C is shown in different octaves by using upper-case letters for low notes, and lower-case letters for high notes, and adding sub-primes and primes in the following sequence: C͵͵ C͵ C c c′ c″ c‴ (or ,,C ,C C c c′ c″ c‴ or C⸜⸜ C⸜ C c c⸝ c⸝⸝ c⸝⸝⸝) and so on.
Development The Korg Monologue was the last Korg synthesizer that Tatsuya Takahashi worked on directly.
de Momigny (Brussels, 1966) Glenn Gerald Caldwell: Harmonic Tonality in the Music Theories of Jerome-Joseph Momigny, 1762–1842 (Studies in the History and Interpretation of Music, vol.
"Associational" factors such as motivic development and timbral relations are ignored, but for "Timbral Hierarchies" see Lerdahl 1987] Constraint 3: The establishment of local grouping boundaries requires the presence of salient distinctive transitions at the musical surface.
Pieces that are cited as featuring interpolation, among other techniques, are Music for Brass Quintet by Gunther Schuller and Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima by Krzysztof Penderecki (both 1960–61).
This pitch gap creates a clear contrast and prevents the individual tones from merging into one sound.
In Schenkerian analysis, the primary tone or head tone (German: Kopfton) is the starting tone of the fundamental line.
The long, vulnerable hinges on the lower left side of the horn were replaced with shorter hinges in a less vulnerable position.
New York: Joseph Patelson Music House (1894) "Singing the Mechanism and the Technic" by William Vennard (1967)
The two offbeats are present in the following 2-3 bass line from Rodríguez's "Mi chinita me botó" (1944).
Contemporary ideas about representation It is from Plato's caution that in the modern era many are aware of political and ideological issues and the influences of representations.
Since the level of interest, with which the participant will respond to these objects, cannot be immediately determined, they will pull away from the centre point with infinite strength and so create a vacuum.
In some studies, radio stations play the hook, typically 8–12 bars long, for audiences of up to 150 participants.
There are, however, any number of situations in which "transformations" can extend to an entire space.
The separation between the mathematical science harmonikai ("harmonics") and chant theory gave space to various speculations, even to the assumption that the same division was used as described in Latin music theory, operating with two diatonic intervals like tonus (9:8) and semitonium (256:243).
1.23 Balungan ngadal (or balungan rangkep) subdivides the beats (keteg) of a gatra, notated by the overline, which means play twice as fast: 2535231 Different gendhing structures prefer certain types of gamelan.
These three transformations and the original tone row, which is sometimes called its "prime", are the four basic forms of any set.
Clave-aligned The basic tumbao sounds slaps (triangle noteheads) and open tones (regular noteheads) on the "and" offbeats.
Nicolaus Mercator use of Ratio Theory in Music at Convergence The Glass Bead Game Hermann Hesse gave music and mathematics a crucial role in the development of his Glass Bead Game.
The invention of cross-stringing in the 1820s is variously credited to Alpheus Babcock and Jean-Henri Pape.
This style is typical of what is referred to as Notre Dame Polyphony; examples of which can be found in the Magnus Liber Organi.
21 (third movement) Carl Maria von Weber: Konzertstück in F minor Johannes Brahms: Variations on a Theme of Paganini.
This characteristic is common in the English virginalists music such as William Byrd's "The Woods so Wild" theme, which is an example of levels (F and G) being elaborated through cadence, melodic divergence from the accompaniment, and subsidiary chords, reaching a complete cadential phrase.
"Religious Chant in the late Ottoman Empire – Between Petros Bereketēs and Hamamîzade İsmail Dede Efendi".
For example, the "Quintschritt" (literally "five-step" in a mixture of Latin and German) transposed a triad by a perfect fifth, transforming C major into G major (up) or F major (down).
If a composer or protopsaltes realised a traditional model of a cherubikon or koinonikon within the melos of echos protos, the phthora nenano will always end the form of the kratema in echos plagios devteros, only then the singer could find a way back to the main echos.
In four-part chorale style harmony, the soprano takes the highest part, which often encompasses the melody.
However, the term "prosody" tends to refer not to the matching of music with content, but with the matching of a melody with the language itself, so that the words being sung come across as naturally as possible.
By the mid-1970s, 12" vinyl singles, which allowed for "more bass volume", were used to record disco, reggae, dub and hip-hop tracks; dance club DJs played these records in clubs with subwoofers to achieve "physical and emotional" reactions from dancers.
In this context, the three-gap theorem can be used to describe any tuning system that is generated in this way by consecutive multiples of a single interval.
In the 1990s, Alex Pauk's Esprit Orchestra recorded and released renditions of several never previously recorded compositions by McPhee.
When averaged, the remaining shifts followed the directions of Stevens's curves but were small (2% or less by frequency, i.e.
Orchestras in Cuba typically use A436 as the pitch so that strings, which are difficult to obtain, last longer.
Hervey's 1894 essay, Handel in the Nineteenth Century, he wrote of the melismas extent in Handel's Messiah: "From other duets in the same volumes were constructed the four choruses "And He Shall Purify", "For Unto Us A Child Is Born", "All We Like Sheep", and "His Yoke is Easy".
Winkler, István; Haden, Gabor; Ladinig, Olivia; Sziller, Istvan; Honing, Henkjan (2009), "Newborn infants detect the beat in music", Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, vol.
It may, for example, be used to indicate a bar of triple metre in which each beat is subdivided into six parts.
Tanaka realized that the 53 equal temperament was completely characterized as a five limit temperament by the fact that it tempers out both the schisma and the kleisma.
See also False relation List of musical intervals List of pitch intervals Ninth (interval) § Minor ninth == References ==
A countermelody differs from a harmony part sung by a backup singer in that whereas the harmony part typically lacks its own independent musical line, a countermelody is a distinct melodic line.
The work Ruth Halliwell reviews the core of the work thus: "At the level of practical comments on improving aspects of violin technique, Leopold showed himself to be full of common sense, and to be capable of expressing his explanations in robust and clear language ...
Aesthetic Claim 2: The best music arises from an alliance of a compositional grammar with the listening grammar.
Variations of Tempo, the ritardando, accelerando, and tempo rubato, are all legitimate aids demanded by Expression.
Composed phase music features two or more instruments playing a repetitive phrase (part) in a steady but not identical tempo.
See also Coltrane changes Giant Steps (composition) Linear progression Transposition (music) == References ==
Speech pathologists and many vocal pedagogues recognize four vocal registers: the vocal fry, modal, falsetto, and whistle.
Such understandings however, are not set in stone and may alter between times, places, peoples and contexts.
Eisemann puts it: When the Mayflower voyagers first descended on these shores, the native Americans proud of their achievement in the theory of information storage and retrieval, at first welcomed the strangers with the complete silence.
Therefore, ethnomusicological scholarship can be characterized as featuring a substantial, intensive fieldwork component, often involving long-term residence within the community studied.
The word has sometimes been used interchangeably with the term coloratura to refer to any difficult vocal run requiring great vocal dexterity, or as a synonym for or a specific type of virtuosic melisma.
The Notre-Dame composers' development of musical rhythm allowed music to be free from its ties to text.
On stems facing up, the flags start at the top and curve down; for downward facing stems, the flags start at the bottom of the stem and curve up.
2 (1923–1927) The organ solo (movement 7) from Janáček's Glagolitic Mass (1926) The last movement of the Violin Concerto by Samuel Barber (1939) The last movement of Béla Bartók's Concerto for Orchestra(1943) Prelude no.
A frequent model of the form began with a long A section in a major key, a short B section in a relative minor key mildly developing the thematic material of the A section and then a repetition of the A section.
Top 40 stations typically can't wait that long for results and have participants "call out" directly, by listening and rating different hooks.
According to Hiro Songsblog a drum cadence is "'a drumline piece played in a parading marching band between or in place of full-band pieces'.
Contrariwise, the minor key has also been considered less justifiable than the major, with Paul Hindemith calling it a "clouding" of major, and Moritz Hauptmann calling it a "falsehood of the major".
February 18, 1941 Adriaan (Daniël) Fokker (1955) "Equal Temperament and the Thirty-one-toned Organ" Stichting Huygens-Fokker B.
Allen Forte's own rule for numbering is usually applied to determine which zygote appears in the main list and which appears added at the end (with a much larger index number) as well; in other words, the one with the lower number has an equal or lesser minimum span.
Papadike and Anthologia (Anoixontarion, Anastasimatarion, Polyeleoi, and Leitourgika) (18th century).
A contour is the ordered pattern of rises and falls in pitch, abstracted from the exact intervals or pitch classes (see Melodic motion).
Use in modern music The unique qualities of the all-interval tetrachord have made it very popular in 20th-century music.
Phanariotes, Armenian musicians as well as Danubian Boyars were the first, who invented different notation systems to transcribe the orally based music traditions of the Ottoman Empire, while Greek treatises still tended to reformulate passages taken from the Hagiopolites treatise.
Sean Hulings was a guest on NBC's The Tonight Show with Jay Leno in a segment called "The Tonight Show Side Show," August 14, 2004, performing the theme from Indiana Jones.
Modulations that are pleasing to the ear are created by adhering to compatible combinations of ajnas and maqamat long established in traditional Arabic music.
The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, second edition, edited by Stanley Sadie and John Tyrrell.
They are further classified into primitive & developed sections; whereas the particular stages of history are understood & distinguished as ancient to modern.
Some genres like rumba prefer a more massive coro sound and double parts whenever possible, while other genres like salsa dura prefer the clean sound of a small coro.
The journal was first published in 1979 as the official organ of the Society for Music Theory, which had been founded in 1977 and had its first conference in 1978.
According to the American National Standards Institute, pitch is the auditory attribute of sound allowing those sounds to be ordered on a scale from low to high.
Tempo There are three variations of Bandish, regarding tempo: Vilambit Bandish: A slow and steady melodic composition, usually in Largo to Adagio speeds.
This is a form of arrangement where the individual sections are simply juxtaposed with no strong connection or relationship.
Difference between baladi and maqsoum The basic structure of the baladi rhythm, played on the darbuka, is as follows: 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 & D-D---T-D---T--- (Dum Dum ...
Sounds with indefinite pitch do not have harmonic spectra or have altered harmonic spectra—a characteristic known as inharmonicity.
For example, relative to the key of A minor, the key of C major is the mediant, and it often serves as a mid-way point between I and V (hence the name).
In the Led Zeppelin song "In The Light", a keyboard drone is used throughout the song, mostly in the intro.
In music, the mediant (Latin: "being in the middle") is the third scale degree () of a diatonic scale, being the note halfway between the tonic and the dominant.
There are instances of stutter edits that use logarithmic curves rather than relying on musically locked timings giving the impression of a "speed up" or "slow down".
The measures are associated with the Inns of Court, the English law schools, as most of the extant sources have been found among the papers of lawyers and law students at the Inns.
1948) Performance and Notation (18 items, 1923–1948) Teaching (8 items, 1911–1950) Composers (15 items, 1911–1951) Social and Political Matters (1912–1950) Sources and Notes Appendices Index The Philosophical Library reprinted the 14-item 1950 edition in 2010.
Byrne’s twitchy and alienated music with Talking Heads never was: genial, well-meaning, as forgettable as a real estate agent’s handshake." See also 2012 in literature Music theory Talking Heads References External links David Byrne on how music works - Wired for sound
Blank boxes indicate that nothing happens during that interval, while a mark in a box indicates that an event occurs at the start of that time interval.
Students listen in the aural portion of discrimination learning, while performing represents the oral portion.
Sri Tyagaraja is a rāgam in Carnatic music(musical scale of South Indian classical music) created by music composer Mahesh Mahadev who has created many ragas, Which is named after saint Tyagaraja of Tiruvaiyaru.
The fundamental is essentially missing from the resonances and is impractical to play on most brass instruments, but the overtones account for most pitches.
Including a counter melody makes the music become polyphonic, a type of texture where there are two or more melodies.
Darrah Chavey suggested that the complexity analysis of human songs can be a useful pedagogic device for teaching students complexity theory.
The eleven central tones of the maqam used in the phase sequence example above may be reduced to three which make up the "nucleus" of the maqam: The tone rows of maqamat may be identical, such as maqam bayati and maqam 'ushshaq turki: But be distinguished by different nuclei.
Nor, after the establishment of opera, did composers feel compelled to end even individual operatic acts and scenes in the starting key.
Either the entire A section must return or only the thematic material of the A section (specifically, the basic idea) and the cadence.
Diatonic transposition Diatonic transposition is scalar transposition within a diatonic scale (the most common kind of scale, indicated by one of a few standard key signatures).
Chromatic transposition Chromatic transposition is scalar transposition within the chromatic scale, implying that every pitch in a collection of notes is shifted by the same number of semitones.
Stochastic music Stochastic processes may be used in music to compose a fixed piece or may be produced in performance.
The Musical Idea, and the Logic, Technique, and Art of Its Presentation [edited, translated, and with a commentary by Patricia Carpenter and Severine Neff].
In the Middle East, a rhythm very similar to shuffle is used in some forms of Iraqi, Kurdish, Azeri, Iranian and Assyrian dance music.
Use of the pattern in Moroccan music can be traced back to slaves brought north across the Sahara Desert from present-day Mali.
Igor Stravinsky said of bar lines: The bar line is much, much more than a mere accent, and I don't believe that it can be simulated by an accent, at least not in my music.
Baxter, 1931 Magnus Liber Organi, (F) Pluteo 29.1, Bibliotheca Mediceo-Laurenziana, Firenze, facsimile by Institute of Medieval Music.
This was important in the development of software for Echo Nest, which underlies several music streaming services.
By abstracting away from pitch content, contour theory provides a flexible framework for comparing motives across transpositions, scales, and tuning systems.
Second, we have to be willing to question our assumptions about the nature and role of musical materials.
In music, the lament bass is a ground bass, built from a descending perfect fourth from tonic to dominant, with each step harmonized.
In an otonality, all of the notes are elements of the same harmonic series, so they tend to partially activate the presence of a "virtual" fundamental as though they were harmonics of a single complex pitch.
Scale The Ganapati raga contains three notes in ascending and descending of the scale: Arohana : S G₂ P Ṡ Avarohana : Ṡ P G₂ S Compositions Notes == References ==
See also List of musical intervals List of pitch intervals List of musical scales and modes Cadence (music)
Although such combinations are often documented in musical references, most experienced musicians learn them by extensive listening.
In this way, equivalence is defined not by prime form or interval vector, but by recurring directional patterns that organize melodic design.
As this combination traveled to America, it helped create new genres such as jazz, big band, and blues.
Sri Tyagaraja raga is an asymmetrical and does not contain dhaivatham in both ascending and descending of the scale, The gamakas of this raga emotes bhakti and karuna rasa.
Ambrose and Gregory the Great, who are known for their contributions to the formulation of Gregorian chant, are credited with 'antiphonaries', collections of works suitable for antiphon, which are still used in the Catholic Church today.
He also was the founder, and, until his death, the conductor of the celebrated concerts attached to the conservatory of Brussels, and he inaugurated a free series of lectures on musical history and philosophy.
The fundamental line descends from its primary tone to the tonic, : To man is given the experience of ending, the cessation of all tensions and efforts.
Little is known of his life, except that he held the office of lampadarios at the Constantinopolitan Court, and received commissions from the last two Byzantine emperors, John VIII Palaiologos and Constantine XI Palaiologos.
Since the 1930s...whole-tone harmony...has become one of the platitudes of the "Hollywood Style." The composer Olivier Messiaen called the whole-tone scale his first mode of limited transposition.
One of Cage's pieces, HPSCHD, itself composed using chance procedures, uses music from Mozart's Musikalisches Würfelspiel, referred to above, as well as original music.
For one thing, the sounds with [ʊ] or [ɪ] as the second symbol are diphthongs, during which the formants change.
It is one of two formal systems for naming notes in a particular octave, the other being scientific pitch notation.
ἦχος), and models for the phthora nenano appeared in some mele of certain echoi like protos and plagios devteros.
In Due serate monografiche dedicata a Karlheinz Stockhausen, edited by Mauro Conti and Alberto Paloscia, 17–27.
External links A Guide to Musical Texture with multimedia Archived 5 December 2003 at the Wayback Machine Add Texture: A web app with examples of different sonic textures
It's a slow reveal, I want it to be a seduction." He cites childhood experiences birdwatching for reed warbler with his father as the starting point for his interest in sound in space.
By using additional tracks and loops with identical source material the possibilities for creating a wider range of phasing relationships increases.
Gordon emphasizes that music itself is not a language as it has no words or grammar, but rather has syntax, an "orderly arrangement of sounds, and context".
Maqsoum (Egyptian slang: Maasoum) is a derivative form of the traditional Egyptian Baladi genre, an urban folk rhythmic style.
This new rhythmic system was the foundation for the mensural notation system and the ars nova style.
More generally diatonic hexachord may refer to any hexachordal subset of the diatonic septad (7-35): 6-Z25, 6-Z26, 6-32, or 6-33.
Construction The points in a lattice represent pitch classes (or pitches if octaves are represented), and the connectors in a lattice represent the intervals between them.
the (perfect) unison, fifth and octave, are generally avoided in traditional counterpoint because they offer the lines so little independence from each other.
However, if the work that is distributed by the remixer is an entirely new and transformative work that is not for profit, copyright laws are not breached.
Major Based upon M7no5, e.g.: { C D♭ F }: Major-minor Based upon mM7no5, e.g.: { C D♭ F♭ }: Minor Based upon m7no5, e.g.: { C D F }, the sonority of the chordioid itself is anhemitonic allowing the possibility that the resultant scale be anhemitonic or at least ancohemitonic itself.
However, it was not till the time of Gluck that the real tremolo became an accepted method of tone production.
This concept comes from the invention of electroacoustic equipment for the transmission of sound, which meant that any sound could be recorded and sent anywhere around the world.
A closely related but earlier theorem, also called the three-gap theorem, is that if A {\displaystyle A} is any arc of the circle, then the integer sequence of multiples of θ {\displaystyle \theta } that land in A {\displaystyle A} has at most three lengths of gaps between sequence values.
The "target chord" concept is applied equally to homomphonic parallelism and its various iterations as it is to polyphony.
He served as organist in Forlì from 1613 and held a number of other posts before returning to Florence in 1640 where he was maestro di cappella and organist at Santa Trinita until his death.
Léonin wrote organa dupla based on existing chants like the Alleluia and the gradual of the mass and responsory and Benedicamus Domino of Vespers for the major liturgical ceremonies in the yearly cycle.
Etymology The word bandish is derived from the Hindustani language, and literally means "binding together".
Apart from the German krautrock bands, the motorik beat has been used by bands from many different genres, most often in psychedelic rock, post-punk, indie rock, and contemporary non-German "krautrock" bands.
With Radical Computer Music, Goodiepal proposes a game play where singularity has been crossed and artificial/alternative intelligences must be acknowledged as existing.
A gatra consists of a sequence of four beats (keteg), which are filled with notes (or rests, pin) from the balungan.
1340) was a Byzantine scholar who flourished in Constantinople about 1300 teaching astronomy, mathematics and musical theory.
The title Rameau chose for his new work was taken from the title of Fontenelle's report to Royal Academy of Sciences on Sauveur's work (Sur un nouveau système de musique).
The "pitch axis" works in the context of the compound operation transpositional inversion, where transposition is carried out after inversion.
Jelly Roll's autobiography, largely drawn from Jelly Roll Morton the Complete Library of Congress Recording.
His only known works are Elim (Palms), dealing with mathematics, astronomy, the natural sciences, and metaphysics, as well as some letters and essays.
James Murray Barbour (1897–1970) is an American acoustician, musicologist, and composer best known for his work Tuning and Temperament: A Historical Survey (1951, 2d ed.
This resulted in McPhee receiving posthumous Juno Award nominations for Best Classical Composition for "Symphony No.
Techniques and Materials of Music: From the Common Practice Period Through the Twentieth Century (Enhanced ed.).
In Turkish Ottoman music, the Beyati quartertone is generally played slightly less flat than the ‘darker’ Ussak tone.
The scale "allows familiar harmonic and linear configurations such as triads and modal tetrachords to be juxtaposed unusually but within a rational framework" though the relation of the diatonic scale to the melodic and harmonic surface is thus generally oblique.
Since there are only two possible whole-tone-scale positions (that is, the whole-tone scale can be transposed only once), it is either C20 or C21.
transposition, inversion, and retrograde), prolation (augmentation, diminution) and combinations thereof.
The Janaka raga of this raga is known as Harikedāragowla in the Muthuswami Dikshitar school of music.
For some fretted string instruments, such as the guitar and the bass guitar, scales can be notated in tabulature, an approach which indicates the fret number and string upon which each scale degree is played.
Viewed in light of Western diatonic theory, the three extra steps (of 34-et compared to 31-et) in effect widen the intervals between C and D, F and G, and A and B, thus making a distinction between major tones, ratio 9:8 and minor tones, ratio 10:9.
However, exceptions include Balakirev's Islamey, where players are instructed to execute the glissando upwards across three octaves with their right hands in the Tempo di Trepak section.
The first section is a complete song with accompaniment, ending in the tonic key, and could in principle be sung by itself.
As stated above, it converts energy into languor, crispness into elasticity, steadiness into capriciousness.
Examples of compositions exhibiting progressive tonality Bach: St Matthew Passion (e-c) Amy Beach: Variations on Balkan Themes (1936 revision) Brahms: Schicksalslied (1871) Handel: Messiah (e-D) Liszt: Hungarian Rhapsody No.
The most common method is executed simply by turning the right wrist upward sharply at a 90-degree angle.
In rare instances, changing tones can be heard as musical cryptograms, such as the cruciform melody.
In popular music genres such as country, blues, jazz or rock music, a lick is "a stock pattern or phrase" consisting of a short series of notes used in solos and melodic lines and accompaniment.
By the very nature of the desired resultant rhythm, the main beat scheme cannot be separated from the secondary beat scheme.
It was usually twice or, rarely, three times as long as a longa, usually four or six or nine times as long as a breve, usually 8, 12, or 18, or, rarely, 27 times as long as a semibreve (whole note), and usually 16, 24, 36, or 54 or, rarely, 81 times as long as a minim (half note).
Item 0194 4443215 Enharmonium (Junseicho orugan) Japan, Shizuoka Pref., Hamamatsu Nippon Gakki 1936 G1 - c4 Invented by Shohei Tanaka, 1931.
The 21st is a natural seventh above G, but not a great interval above C, and the 27th is a just fifth above D.
In music, a drum cadence or street beat is a work played exclusively by the percussion section of a modern marching band or drum and bugle corps (see marching percussion).
Due to the pause and need for preparation between strokes, martelé is unable to be performed on passages of exceptional speed.
And 'bad' is a key word here because it suggests that aesthetic and ethical judgements are tied together here: not to like a record is not just a matter of taste; it is also a matter of argument, and argument that matters" (p.
12 equal temperament and 22 equal temperament do not distinguish between these tritones; 19 equal temperament does distinguish them but doesn't match them closely.
For instance, the interval from C to E is a major third, four semitones wide, and both the intervals from C♭ to E, and from C to E♯ are augmented thirds, spanning five semitones.
The "Gaston & Purcell" musical duo has performed together since 1992, with Ken Purcell supplying instrumental and vocal accompaniment.
The Pythagorean augmented third, E♯+++, is 521.51 cents or 177147:131072, eleven just perfect fifths.
A transposition by 1, 4, 7, or 10 semitones will transform the E♭ scale into the D♭ scale, the C♯ scale into the D scale, and the D scale into the E♭ scale.
Starting in 1963, Longy served as a member of the Literature and Materials Faculty at the Juilliard School of Music (now the Juilliard School) to teach music theory and solfège, a position she would hold until her death in 1979.
For reference, these differences are shown here together with the Ancient Greek names of the octave species according to the Hagiopolites (see Hagiopolitan Octoechos) and to the chant treatises and tonaries of Carolingian theorists.
In 1873, the Austrian physiologist Sigmund Exner reported the auditory ability to distinguish successive clicks from the wheel (or, alternatively, rapidly snapped electric sparks) at time intervals as close as 2 milliseconds (1/500 sec).
The fundamental line itself originates as an arpeggiation of the tonic chord, filled by passing tones: In accordance with the arpeggiation from which it stems, the fundamental line exhibits the space of a third, fifth, or octave.
Perpetuum mobile as a genre of separate musical compositions was at the height of its popularity by the end of the 19th century.
A medium-paced and graceful game, it is played traditionally by "formados" (graduated students) at the end of the roda.
The timbre of the throat notes differs, and the throat register's fingerings also are distinctive, using special keys and not the standard tone holes used for other notes.
Riemann's theory of transformations formed the basis for Neo-Riemannian theory, which expanded the idea of transformations beyond the basic tonal triads that Riemann was mostly concerned with.
Balamuralikrishna with only three notes and Introduced to Carnatic music with a composition 'Gam Ganapathim'.
The ideas behind fads are not always original; they might stem from what is already popular at the time.
He shorted these stocks just before the expiration of lockup periods ending six months after initial public offerings, correctly anticipating many dot-com company executives would sell shares as soon as possible, and that large-scale selling would force down share prices.
Frisby and the Rats of NIMH Overpopulation Population decline Rats of NIMH Societal collapse References Sources Day, Jon (July 24, 2025).
Informal groups, that meet infrequently and spontaneously, have a tendency to represent significant aspects of their community as episodic memories.
Kinikini, a member of the local town council, was allegedly involved in corruption and violence, and had refused to resign from his position, unlike some of his colleagues.
These deep fusion models will employ "neural network(s) to promote the density map regression accuracy." These models will first mark the location of each civilian within the picture.
Marshall McLuhan's global village: The shrinking of our big world to a small place called cyberspace is made possible by technological extensions of human consciousness.
A draft strategy, referred to as Plan Jael, was presented to Allied high command at the Tehran Conference.
Ron Artest was suspended for the rest of the season, stagnated on his basketball improvements, and was traded 16 games into the next season, ending the era of his Pacers team/dynasty.
In this argument, the crucial factor in changes to heritage language acquisition is the extent to which the heritage speaker activates and processes the heritage language.
Many colleges and universities earlier instituted free-speech-zone rules during the Vietnam-era protests of the 1960s and 1970s.
The allegations included reports of "bad clowns," robots, "magic rooms," and animals being tortured.
Likewise, according to the book, the German people were impacted by the mythologized East in the same way that Americans have been affected by their own formative stories based on the mythical West.
Sergio Romano, while acknowledging the crowd's indifference, like Iannuzzi questioned the racist dimension, pointing out a similar instance of a non-Roma body on a beach in northern Italy in 1997.
Product advertisements Advertisers have also entered the arena with their discovery that "fear sells".
Because of these misconceptions, many stereotypically "masculine-acting" gay men were exempt from public suspicion about their sexuality.
High-traction horseshoes made of speciality metals or fitted with rubber soles are typically used in urban areas in place of standard steel horseshoes, which are prone to slip on pavement.
On October 31, 1981, a wave was created at a University of Washington football game against Stanford at Husky Stadium in Seattle, and the cheer continued to appear during the rest of that year's football season.
The disaster happened at the Railway End of the ground where, in common with many other post-war grounds, facilities were rudimentary.
We have created an almost friendly relationship." The general rehearsals took place on the stage of the Gérard Philippe theater in Saint Denis.
He considers collective identity as a process that is negotiated over time with three parts: cognitive definition, active relationship, and emotional investments.
Diagnosis Definition Conversion disorder is now partly contained under functional neurological symptom disorder (FNSD).
In sociology In 1989, Alberto Melucci published Nomads of the Present, which introduces his model of collective identity based on studies of the social movements of the 1980s.
The term is used to describe those who voluntarily acquiesce to a suggestion without any significant critical analysis or research, in large part due to the majority of a population having a similar mindset.
According to an editorial in the academic journal Ethnoscripts, "Occupy Pedophilia" attacks began in Moscow and spread to Novosibirsk.
The increase in waitlists and the lack of specialized programs, including drug, alcohol, and intoxicated driving courses detrimentally impact the ability of inmates to receive adequate rehabilitation.
For many events, especially political rallies or protests, the number of people in a crowd carries political significance and count results are controversial.
General numerical questions (e.g., what is the speed of sound, in kilometers per hour?) did not improve with repeated judgments, while averaging individual judgments with those of a random other did improve accuracy.
Collective consciousness, collective conscience, or collective conscious (French: conscience collective) is the set of shared beliefs, ideas, and moral attitudes which operate as a unifying force within society.
News reports put the total number of purple-ticket-holders who were denied entrance to the inauguration at between 1,000 and 4,000.
Crowd collapses and crushes are often reported incorrectly as human stampedes, which typically occur when a large group of people all try to get away from a perceived risk to life.
Internet vigilantism originated in the early 2000s and has since evolved to include a variety of methods such as hacking, baiting, and public shaming.
2004: "When 44-year-old drug suspect Winston Hayes' SUV lurched forward, he hit a police car, deputies unloaded their weapons, firing 120 shots.
Another step in the development of the modern town hall meeting came on March 16, 1977, when President Carter attended a televised town hall meeting in Clinton, Massachusetts, that was "modeled after" a real town meeting but did not include binding votes.
Essentially, people fear becoming social isolates and thus take measures to avoid such a consequence, as demonstrated by psychologist Solomon Asch in the Asch conformity experiments.
This resulting mentality, according to Le Bon, belongs more to the collective than any individual, so that individual traits are submerged.
According to People's Union for Democratic Rights, the Vishva Hindu Parishad and the Gauraksha Samiti have defended violent vigilantism around cow protection as sentiments against the "sin of cow-slaughter" and not related to "the social identity of the victims".
According to the manual, "in this elevated position, bayonets can be seen by participants in the rear of the crowd.
A popular example was a recorded figure named "Ahmed Qardash" and, was known for a story in which he and his gang broke into a house belonging to a Jewish merchant.
However, a great deal of current experimental work is devoted to synthetic systems such as artificial self-propelled particles.
These archetypes, a special focus of Jung's work, become autonomous personalities within an individual psyche.
The force is thus associated with the totem—the symbol of the clan, mentioned by Durkheim in his study of "elementary forms" of religion in Aboriginal societies.
Harry Bergholz writes that "grossly generalizing, one might describe its aim as the art of the psychology of human groups".
This means that when subtracting the two probabilities, the group's contributions to the overall probability cancel out.
Rather than existing as separate individuals, people come together as dynamic groups to share resources and knowledge.
Stock market bubbles Large stock market trends often begin and end with periods of frenzied buying (bubbles) or selling (crashes).
His neighbors, Steve Brand and Charlie Farnsworth, decide to go into town to investigate further, but Tommy, a neighborhood boy, urges them not to go.
These zones continued through the presidency of Barack Obama, who signed a bill in 2012 that expanded the power of the Secret Service to restrict speech and make arrests.
Experiments on synthetic systems include self-propelled colloids (e.g., phoretically propelled particles), driven granular matter (e.g.
In The Causes of War, Australian historian Geoffrey Blainey argues, "If war-weariness was one of the spokes in Mr.
12 best selling book (across all categories) on Amazon.com (March 3, 2012, not necessarily a peak ranking), No.
The film chronicles the 25-year span from 1984 to 2009 in the criminal court case of "The Commonwealth of Massachusetts versus Bernard F.
Sometimes a 15-mile (24 km) stretch of coast representing most of the eastern shore can be affected, and at other times the extent can be limited to as little as 500 feet (150 m) of coastline.
Ilan Zaoui du 24 juillet 2013 par Franck et Jérôme, an interview in which Ilan Zaoui tells the details of the work on the dance at an unofficial website about Louis de Funès
Brown, director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, was later held responsible for the crisis, despite official guidelines stating that leadership during times of crisis fell to the United States Secretary of Homeland Security, who at the time was Michael Chertoff.
Due to the determination of collective stress as the cause, medical sociologist Robert Bartholomew favors the neutral term mass psychogenic illness over mass hysteria, as people respond more favorably to a diagnosis of stress induced symptoms than to a diagnosis of mass hysteria.
Rather, homosexuality was a disease of the Volkskörper (national body), a metaphor for the desired national or racial community (Volksgemeinschaft).
In 2013, the group reached international notoriety when they targeted and subjected a 20 year old South African exchange student at Belgorod Technological University to homophobic abuse.
Successful males congregate in the same area as the previous breeding season because it is familiar to them, while females return to reunite with their males.
There has never been an explanation as to why the hoax was undertaken, or for the selection of Mrs Tottenham—a wealthy woman of good social standing—as the victim of events.
Four thousand men from Ballia district and two thousand from Ghazipur district joined the Hindus in Mau to stop the sacrifice in 1893.
Soak her!" The group then tore off her clothes and undergarments, groped her, and yanked her jewelry from her neck.
Such was the pressure from the Railway End, that many fans were pushed inexorably along the side of the pitch, around the far end and, eventually, right out of the ground, ending up in the car park.
These were observed in regions of Punjab, United Provinces, Bihar, Bengal, Bombay Presidency and in parts of South Myanmar (Rangoon).
Delhi On 1 August 2017, three women, unknown to each other and aged between 50 and 60, from Kangan Heri complained about being the victims of hair-chopping incidents on the same day.
References External links Videos Disturbance: MTUFC VS TPFC from YouTube Thai Port rebellion from YouTube
A FIR was registered and the case was lodged under sections 452 (trespass), 354 (assault or criminal force intend to outrage modesty of women) and 509 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code.
Folk consensus Loesch lists five observations that he reported as having a strong concurrence among witnesses of several jubilees: Jubilees occur only in the summer.
Litigation In 2004, one of the alleged victims approached the J&K State Human Rights Commission seeking a reinvestigation of the case.
The completed motive pattern comprises 89 waves, followed by a completed corrective pattern of 55 waves.
Snatch squads are also employed against violent fugitives when they are otherwise likely to barricade themselves or use force in a search warrant setting.
Taylor in 2014, then the question was revisited by Cicognani et al., whose experiment reinforced Munchnik's and his co-authors' results.
Indira Gandhi, the newly nominated Prime Minister, continued her father's policy of no national ban on cow slaughter.
Similarity to value investing Contrarian investing is related to value investing in that the contrarian is also looking for mispriced investments and buying those that appear to be undervalued by the market.
Current appearances Today, the wave is often seen during sports events, sometimes during a lull in the action on the field when the spectators want to amuse themselves.
For example, Nicolis and Prigogine (1977) employed the use of non-linear thermodynamics to help explain similarities between collective systems at different scales.
For simple, repeated scan patterns, it is possible to calculate the maximum possible exposure, by looking at the location (such as an edge) where the beam is moving slowest (longest dwell time).
More than 35,000 Nepalese gathered in Tundikhel in Kathmandu to form the world's largest human national flag.
This technique was widely used against Sikhs during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, which took place throughout northern India after the erstwhile Indian prime minister Indira Gandhi, having presided over Operation Blue Star earlier that year, was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards.
On the day of Islamic festival of sacrifice (September 1946), states Batabyal, the rumor spread among the Bengali Muslims congregated in mosques.
Identification and arrests On 12 February 2020, Delhi Police said that 30 suspects were identified and arrested ten students in connection to the alleged assaults.
Most examples of active matter are biological in origin and span all the scales of the living, from bacteria and self-organising bio-polymers such as microtubules and actin (both of which are part of the cytoskeleton of living cells), to schools of fish and flocks of birds.
At events in streets or a park rather than an enclosed venue, crowd counting is more difficult and less precise.
As described above, the MCCM is very similar to the M18A1 Claymore mine, except that the MCCM has a molded, tactile surface of raised diamonds on its back plastic cover which is a different color (light green), for easier discrimination between a lethal M18A1 Claymore and the non-lethal MCCM.
In 1170, the Abbasid Caliph al-Mustadi hired a group of shaqawat to assassinate the general of the army Qutb al-Din, who had threatened the Caliph's power, in his house.
The injury is typically inflicted by a low-velocity gunshot to the back of the knee (popliteal fossa) with a handgun.
In this situation those entering may be unaware of the effect on those in front and continue to press in.
Further, researchers argued that "Calhoun's work was not simply about density in a physical sense, as number of individuals-per-square-unit-area, but was about degrees of social interaction." "Social density" appears to be key.
For example, wars are not always national traumas; while the Vietnam War is experienced by Americans as a national trauma Winston Churchill famously titled the closing volume of his history of the Second World War Triumph and Tragedy.
During the 18th century, there was a move from the idea of hysteria being caused by the uterus to it being caused by the brain.
That is, although the overall fusion of a group of persons may shift in response to powerful situational forces, the rank orderings of individuals within the group will remain stable.
The first recorded printed use of the term "jubilee" in this context was in the Mobile Daily Register (now the Mobile Press-Register) on July 29, 1912: This was not, however, the first time the newspaper had covered the phenomenon; in his research, oceanographer Edwin B.
In recent years, a number of them have revised or removed these restrictions following student protests and lawsuits, while generating debates amongst policymakers, academics, and even courts on the constitutionality and impact on discourse.
It was believed that the incidence of adolescent homosexual behavior had increased after World War I, one of the most popular explanations being that adult homosexual men (either in person or via gay-oriented publications) had caused the increase.
Results The up-vote treatment increased the probability of up-voting by the first viewer by 32% over the control group, while the probability of down-voting did not change compared to the control group, which means that users did not correct the random positive rating.
Comments which fell to the first group were given an up-vote upon the creation of the comment, the second group got a down-vote upon creation, the comments in the control group remained untouched.
Soon after, another victim, skating down Central Park South, was sexually assaulted by a group of men.
Usually only one wave crest will be present at any given time in an arena, although simultaneous, counter-rotating waves have been produced.
Historians disagree about who were controlling the strategy of tension, but there is evidence that both national neofascist groups and foreign powers were involved.
None of the women had seen their perpetrator, but when they fell unconscious and later woke up, they found their hair chopped.
Three years after Quiet's publication, David DiSalvo wrote in Forbes that a "groundswell support for the book's thesis" resulted in "a sort of cultish affinity for introversion", but cautioned that "as with all movement-making arguments", they have "fueled ...
A basic overview of the algorithm is that each action is assigned a Q value and each agent is given the directive to always perform the action with the highest Q value.
Kneecapping is a form of malicious wounding, in which the victim is injured in the knee, often as torture.
Charlie makes a break for his house; everyone chases him, throwing stones, one of which smashes a porch lantern, causing the broken glass to fly at Charlie's face, cutting his forehead.
The Kor Royal Cup stampede was a crowd crush that occurred on 20 February 2010 at Suphachalasai Stadium in Bangkok, Thailand during a Kor Royal Cup match between Muangthong United and Thai Port.
I contend this is made possible by the method's loosely defined rules and the ability to postulate a large number of nested waves of varying magnitude.
That is to say, if it is assumed that a disaster will lead to public panic, then it can be expected that government authorities will communicate to citizens in an encouraging manner, possess and sometimes withhold crucial information, and consolidate as many resources as they can.
One Side of the Story Those reading reviews on products and services are likely to view reviews which only tell one side to the story.
The first is to determine the static laser beam parameters, such as laser power, divergence, audience distance etc.
A comparable situation in Russia is suggested in a sermon by Serapion of Vladimir (written in 1274~1275), where the popular superstition of witches causing crop failures is denounced.
Richard Cavendish (occult writer) also cites Cohn in The Powers of Evil in Western Religion and Folk Belief.
We can talk ourselves out of it with the excuse that it would have cost me my head if I had spoken out.
The Pursuit of the Millennium: Revolutionary Millenarians and Mystical Anarchists of the Middle Ages (2nd ed.).
Driven by the desire to be accepted within a specific group, it surrounds the idea that people alter certain behaviors to be like those of the people within a group.
Fields, Free Press 1995: ISBN 0-02-907937-3 Griswold, Wendy, Cultures and Societies in a Changing World, Pine Forge Press, 2008; 51–56.
Peers also have higher similar interests and are more influenced by each other than an 'ordinary' and 'popular' user who do not have mutual ties.
He goes on to state that it can help better understand the development of modern collective action, distinct from formal organizations, amidst the rapid development of the field of social science research.
The story tells of a group of men pursuing cattle rustlers, capturing and hanging them, and the moral consequences.
(1990) considered it reasonable to expect that imagination would be an important factor in empathy, given these constructs.
The results of this research found that there is a positive relationship of the perceived similarities in a political party and ideological differences of the student and instructor to perceived greater political silencing.
In 1946, rumors spread in Bengal that Hindus had secretly conspired to stop cow sacrifice on Eid-ul-Adha by bringing in Sikhs and arms into their homes.
In many large arenas the crowd is seated in a contiguous circuit all the way around the sport field, and so the wave is able to travel continuously around the arena; in discontiguous seating arrangements, the wave can instead reflect back and forth through the crowd.
The algorithm, represented in pseudocode, begins with invocation of procedure Microscale ⁡ ( ) {\displaystyle \operatorname {Microscale} ()} , which uses the data structures to carry out the simulation according to the numbered steps described at the right.
Hours later, witnesses began noticing groups of men using water guns and other vessels to splash attendees indiscriminately as well as men shouting lewd insults at passing women.
The German Myth of the East: 1800 to the Present is a nonfiction cultural historical account of centuries of durable German myth-making about the lands to the east of them as written by Vejas Gabriel Liulevicius and published by Oxford University Press in 2009.
He continued his career in Germany as a cleric and as a leading voice of penance and reconciliation for the German people after World War II.
War crime Indiscriminate mass arrests were designated a war crime in 1944 by a commission on war crimes created by the London International Assembly.
Creation Homohysteria is a concept established as part of Professor Eric Anderson's Inclusive Masculinity Theory.
Riots triggered by slaughter of cows continued in rural and urban locations of India in the 1950s and 1960s.
Incidents include the cancellation of a concert and loss of ten lives in two separate events in October and November 2021 at the NRG Arena.
The establishment of organized law-enforcement bodies throughout Africa, Asia and the Americas during the colonial and post-colonial eras made the concept of predominantly horse-police accepted almost world-wide.
Throughout its history, many patients have been misdiagnosed with hysteria or conversion disorder when they had organic disorders such as tumors, epilepsy, or vascular diseases.
About the book Expanding on themes in Liulevicius's previously ″well received″ nonfiction book entitled, ″War Land on the Eastern Front: Culture, National Identity, and German Occupation in World War I,″ this book provides further insight into German thought and experience in the East.
Guinness official Seyda Subasi-Gemici, adjudicator of Guinness World Records Ltd., presented the certificate validating the attempt.
We tried to have card tricks but the kids would imbibe too much and the card tricks would get all goofed up; then we'd try card tricks with the kids using their bodies as cards and that wouldn't work.
What the British Think of Us: A Study of British Hostility to America and Americans and Its Motivation, with Recommendations for Improving Anglo-American Relations, with Doris Fleischman (1950).
They can automatically generate content and interact with human users, often impersonating or imitating humans.
Mayor Giuliani banned alcohol at the parade the following year, though public consumption of alcohol was already illegal before the move.
Activities in the 20th century After the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, the shaqawat became active in the 1920 Iraqi revolt, where many outlaws began harassing British forces.
Now, when it comes to health during the pilgrimage, 248 of 391 individuals indicated that hey had some type of respiratory issues, which included a runny nose, cough, and fever.
It was reported that Zhang Qiaolian and Zhang Hang acknowledged guilt while the three others voiced no remorse.
Synopsis In this book the geographic East refers to eastern parts of Germany as well as lands that are east of Germany's borders.
For proof, a helicopter was used to take the pictures and capture the video and has been sent to Guinness Book of World Records for the verification, which takes around eight weeks to announce.
Other women have said that they were knocked unconscious with a mysterious chemical spray that authorities have yet to identify.
Potential customers may also be interested in leaving feedback on a particular product or service to explain why they did not make their purchase.
Her husband attempted to save her, forcing his way through the crowd, and taking her out of the park to a policeman.
A major notion that it seeks to dispel is that women get harassed because of the clothing they wear.
The predators are keenly focused on the shoals, acutely aware of their numbers and whereabouts, and make migrations themselves, often in schools of their own, that can span thousands of miles to connect with, or stay connected with them.
They reported that most workers were young women, either putting their husbands through school or supplementing the family income.
Through street actions and dialogue, Blank Noise hopes to achieve its aims of achieving a safe and free environment for women on the streets, and enable society to become more egalitarian towards women in general.
The bodies remained on the beach until the morgue personnel arrived, after an interval variously reported as one or three hours.
The record was in the name of Human Values for Peace and Prosperity, an NGO in Nepal with a slogan – Breaking the Records to Unite the Hearts.
However, international human rights organizations have expressed serious doubts about the integrity of these investigations and the manner in which they were conducted.
The Burnden Park disaster was a crowd crush that occurred on 9 March 1946 at Burnden Park football stadium, then the home of Bolton Wanderers.
Gainer, the Sergeant at Arms of the United States Senate, stated that it appeared that the breakdown had occurred because there were more purple and blue tickets for those sections than bulky people in coats would permit.
On the other hand, the knowledge that other ingroup members are unable to identify the self may have consequences for (in particular) low identifiers to feel less committed to ingroup norms.
Events Koné Mohamed scored with a header from a Piyachart free kick in the 67th minute, his first goal in a Muangthong United shirt after he moved from Chonburi, and Dagno Siaka scored with a header in the 81st minute.
The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life, (1912, English translation by Joseph Swain: 1915) The Free Press, 1965: ISBN 0-02-908010-X; HarperCollins, 1976: ISBN 0-04-200030-0; new translation by Karen E.
According to Judith Walsh, widespread cow protection riots occurred repeatedly in British India in the 1880s and 1890s.
Teachers who function as "co-learners" and authoritative facilitators create the best classroom environments Teacher as "co-learner" is balanced by two Archetypes: The Sage – has already conquered many challenges and developed a deeper understanding of life's lessons.
Activities The group attracted attention by filming its attacks on gay men and some other victims and distributing the videos on the Internet.
A study with the White Cloud Mountain minnow has also found that choosing fish prefer to shoal with individuals that have consumed the same diet as themselves.
Moral panic and other incidents The stabbing in Waukesha spawned a nationwide moral panic over Slender Man across the United States.
2013: In California, officers involved in the search for Christopher Dorner mistakenly fired at least 100 rounds at a truck occupied by three people, none of whom had any connection to the suspect.
Influential people from high culture to popular culture saw the East as wild, dangerous, disorganized, and dirty, while others conversely saw it as captivating, intoxicating, as a transformational experience or as a desirable place of endless promise and opportunity.
Polinsky and Kagan label it as a continuum (taken from Valdés definition of heritage language) that ranges from fluent speakers to barely speaking individuals of the home language.
After hearing the story, an unidentified woman from Cincinnati, Ohio, told a WLWT TV reporter in June 2014 that her 13-year-old daughter had attacked her with a knife, and had written macabre fiction, some involving Slender Man, who the mother said motivated the attack.
The authors also compared the final mean scores of comments across the most active topic categories on the website.
The Bangladesh Police employed kneecapping from 2013 to punish the opposition and prevent them from participating in protests against the government.
SmartBody allows for complex behavior realization, synchronizing speech recordings with non-verbal behaviors by using the Behavior Markup Language (BML).
Many observers cite these episodes as clear examples of herding behavior that is irrational and driven by emotion—greed in the bubbles, fear in the crashes.
According to the concerned Amnesty spokesperson, Philip Luther, the Egyptian prison authorities showed no regard to the wellbeing or lives of the prisoners and crammed them all into the country's already overcrowded prisons, ignoring their health requirements.
Studies and proposed explanations First study In 2013, the first research was reported by Drew Walker and Edward Vul.
In Richard Linklater's 2008 film Me and Orson Welles, English actor Leo Bill plays the role of fellow American actor Norman Lloyd, who in turn plays the role of Cinna the Poet in Orson Welles' production of Shakespeare's Julius Caesar.
Research in humans shows an activation of the premotor cortex and parietal area of the brain for action perception and execution.
Applications of crowd analysis can range from video game crowd simulation to security and surveillance.
Since the WRIAS scores are meant for research and statistically reliable, they help researchers understand how White racial identity can develop psychological burdens.
This caused the ANC to initially distance itself from her, although she later took on a number of official positions within the party.
Social Origins Sibai, Luedicke and de Valck (2024) have shown that digital vigilantism, as a standing feature of digital culture, can be traced back to dynamics of social media brutalization, whereby verbal violence becomes an endemic feature of social media interaction.
But I think that the abuses in the past have in many cases exacerbated the disharmonies that brought about demonstrations, and I think that arrest or large numbers of people without warrants ...
After social distancing began to dissipate in 2021, multiple performing artists became the victims of fan misbehavior.
Psychological trauma is a shattering of the fundamental assumptions that a person has about themselves and the world.
Others developed depression or anxiety as a result of the attacks or stayed at home due to fear of attacks.
Four members of the group were arrested by the Spanish police and convicted for invasion of privacy and offenses against the human dignity of the victims.
Largest Human Flag of India was an event organised to form the world's largest human national flag in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
Capture Mayor Fausto Terán Bustillos was put in command of a squad formed by the Grupo de Intervención y Rescate (GIR) of the National Police, which was in charge of investigating Niño del Terror's crimes.
Aftermath The New York City Police Department was widely criticized for its failures to stop or prevent the attacks.
If you start finding yourself in a crowd surge, wait for the surge to come, go with it, and move sideways.
Victor Pivert (played by Louis de Funès), an anti-Semitic and generally bigoted industrialist, is on the run disguised as Rabbi Jacob.
Security at professional sports games changed drastically after the incident as well, with comments from players such as Jermaine O'Neal stating that "There was no security.
Thus, the displayed emotions of those around one may affect one's own level, or type, of emotional display.
They also discuss their intention to use this strategy to conquer Earth, one neighborhood at a time.
One student told NDTV that she wanted to report verbal harassment to the Proctor but she could not as signal jammers were installed for the fest.
Under this definition, individuals that have some cultural connection with the language but do not speak it are not considered heritage students.
As a concrete example of the risks of groupthink, Cain mentions juries, in which the desire for social cohesion can sometimes short-circuit justice.
Hamas again kneecapped and executed Palestinians who they accused of stealing food and aid supplies during the Gaza war in 2024.
Row, Bennett, and Atkinson created their own theory in response to concerns they had with Helm's model.
George Floyd and Breonna Taylor protests, 2020 In May and June 2020, many cities in the United States experienced protests, rioting and looting following the murder of George Floyd by a policeman in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
However, large-scale experiments and field trials can evade this concern, and can document social contagion.
Struggle sessions were further employed during the Anti-Rightist Campaign launched by Mao Zedong in 1957, during which a large number of people, both inside and outside the CCP, were labeled "rightists" and subjected to persecution and public "criticism".
A lawyer from Sydney, Kerr serves as president of Australian Water Polo, Inc., a position he has held since 1996.
André won French titles in 110 m hurdles (1908, 1914, 1919, 1922), 400 m hurdles (1913–14, 1919–20, 1922), high jump (1907–1909, 1911, 1914, 1919), standing high jump (1909, 1911–12, 1914, 1919–20).
Section 4, from "bee it" to "enacted that" was repealed by section 1(1) of, and part I of the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1888 (51 & 52 Vict.
Jos minut asetetaan esimiesasemaan, tahdon olla alaisiani kohtaan oikeudenmukainen, pitää huolta heidän hyvinvoinnistaan, hankkia tietoa heidän toiveistaan, olla heidän neuvonantajanaan ja ohjaajanaan sekä omasta puolestani pyrkiä olemaan heille hyvänä ja kannustavana esimerkkinä.
The person taking the oath of serviceman has to sign the text of the oath, noting also the date of taking the oath.
We conclude the complaint is sufficient to entitle both plaintiffs to litigate their claims under the Declaratory Judgment Act, though we are careful to express no opinion on the merits of those claims." Seth Cohen, General Counsel for the N.C.
WOSM stated in 1932 that no new exceptions would be made and expressed the hope that the few remaining countries would stop using a promise without any reference to Duty to God.
It has been theorised by some that a schism with the church of Rome was imminent, but diverted by political events in both Spain and Italy, such as the Moorish invasion of 711.
The oath is also given by volunteers of the Estonian Defence League, when they complete their basic training (5 weekends).
The Chinese Communist Party Admission Oath (Chinese: 中国共产党入党誓词) is an oath that prospective members of the Chinese Communist Party must take to become a party member according to Article 6 of the Constitution of the Chinese Communist Party.
My principle is to protect my juniors, to respect my elders, to love my homeland and my nation more than myself.
A pinky swear, or pinky promise, is a traditional gesture most commonly practiced amongst children involving the locking of the pinkies of two people to signify that a promise has been made.
Notes References External links Luis Doreste Blanco at World Sailing (archived) Luis Doreste at Olympics.com Luis Doreste at Olympedia Luís Doreste Blanco at the Comité Olímpico Español (in Spanish) (archived)
All those things together was just too much for some people to handle." In 2016, Du stated, "The question of why Surya never attained Olympic gold, and the disqualification of her singular skill, is still a matter of controversy.
It provided that certain courts would cease to have jurisdiction to hear and determine legal proceedings, but could continue to sit and transact other business it could customarily transact.
Section 3 of the act disapplied certain procedural requirements in cases of high treason consisting of counterfeiting the king's coin; namely the requirement in section 11 of the Treason Act 1708 (7 Ann.
In 2003, he received the Bud and Mary Little Award from the US Ski Team for his work with the Winter Olympics and the International Ski Federation.
It has led them to give proper credit to others for their contributions and to accept responsibility for their own actions.
In 1912 he founded the Belgian Professional Association of Sports Journalists, and headed it from 1923 to 1935.
Ceremony and symbolism Tamata may be offered to an icon or shrine of a saint as a reminder of a petitioner's particular need, or in gratitude for a prayer answered.
Besides that, various opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and former Prime Ministers were invited.
national symbols American civil religion American exceptionalism American nationalism Americanism (ideology) References Further reading Murdock, Myrtle Cheney (1958), The American's Creed and William Tyler Page, Monumental Press.
Judaism According to the Talmud, judicial oaths are to be performed while holding a scroll of the Torah.
October Equus), the Halieia also included a ritual, that took place on the 24th day of the summer month of Gorpiaeus, where the Rhodians sacrificed to the god a team of four white horses, by driving a four-horse chariot, representing the chariot of the sun, into the sea.
In 1790, a Hebrew version by Isaac Abraham Euchel appeared in the journal Me'assefim; it attributed the original text to Herz.
The fifth-century BC historian Herodotus, locates this stream—calling it "the water of Styx"—as being near Nonacris a town (in what was then ancient Arcadia and now modern Achaea) not far from Pheneus, and says that the Spartan king Cleomenes, would make men take oaths swearing by its water.
In 1774 an oath was proposed of allegiance to King George (§ 1) and rejection of the Pretender (§ 2), but without prejudice to the pope's spiritual authority, or to any dogma of the Faith.
In the lead-up to the Salt Lake Games, Jack participated in the Olympic torch relay, lighting a cauldron at the speed skating oval in Lake Placid where he had won his medals in 1932.
Multiple explanations for the prohibition of euthanasia in the oath have been proposed: it is possible that not all physicians swore the oath, or that the oath was seeking to prevent widely held concerns that physicians could be employed as political assassins.
ISBN 978-1258318864 Page, William Tyler (1921), The Book of the American's Creed, Sons of the American Revolution: The Country Life Press.
English Translation Rendered in English, this is translated as: The Lord said: "Health is the greatest gain." He also said: "He who would minister to me should minister to the sick." I too think that health is the greatest gain and I would minister to the Buddha.
Junko Hiramatsu, née: Ueno (平松 純子, Hiramatsu Junko; born November 1, 1942) is a Japanese former competitive figure skater who is now a coach and International Skating Union (ISU) official.
They are often held in conjunction with an Australian citizenship ceremony but can also be celebrated as a separate ceremony.
My principle is to protect the younger, to respect the elder, to love my homeland and my nation more than myself.
Some religious adherents hold beliefs that allow them to make legally binding promises but forbid them to swear an oath before a deity.
I pledge to steadfastly guard Her honour, and to fight for Her liberation with all my strength, even to the extent of sacrificing my own life.
The Scottish Claim of Right Act 1689 says that the monarch cannot "exercise the regal power until he or she swear the Coronation Oath." See also Accession Declaration Act 1910 Notes References The Law & Working of the Constitution: Documents 1660-1914, ed.
At another points she cries that her "best beloved, but now he lies [a]nd putrefies in some dark vale".
To date, King's swearing-in as vice president is the only occasion that either a vice presidential or presidential oath of office has been administered on foreign soil.
Dive coaching Billingsley served as the Indiana Hoosiers’s diving coach from 1959 to 1989, leading the Hoosiers to six NCAA and 23 Big Ten team championships.
New Zealand According to New Zealand law, new citizens are given the option of taking the oath in either English or Maori when swearing in at a citizenship ceremony.
Invitees Former Indian cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu arrived in Pakistan via the Wagha border to attend the oath-taking ceremony.
He won the prestigious 54 km Birkebeinerrennet ski marathon in Norway in 1987, the first non-Scandinavian to do so.
The earliest known version of the “Oath” was handwritten by Massachusetts Bay Governor John Winthrop in 1631.
The Act referred to a decree of 27 June 1909, which laid down the wording of the oath to be taken by members of the parliament as follows: "I, ..., swear on the Holy Gospels ...".
Competitive career Huang started as an amateur in 1978, joining the Hubei team in 1985, and was selected to China's national gymnastics team the following year.
When the pledge of allegiance is pronounced, the right hand is extended using the Roman salute, directing it to the flag in a 30-45 degree angle and, if necessary, turning the body in the direction of it.
In the Catholic Church, the vow of obedience is one of the three vows of professing to live according to the evangelical counsels.
They may be used by UK financial institutions to enable an asset of a relatively small value (usually less than £15,000) to be transferred to the executors of a will or other persons legally entitled to deal with or benefit from the estate of a person who has died.
International career At his Olympic debut in Antwerp, Belgium he won the bronze medal with the Netherlands national football team, followed by a fourth place four years later in Paris, France.
The Daughters of Helios or Three Graces depicts the three Charites - Aglaea, Euphrosyne, and Thalia - who in some accounts are the daughters of Helios and the naiad Aegle.
The oath of Bereg (Hungarian: beregi eskü), also labelled as agreement at Bereg (Hungarian: beregi egyezmény), was a treaty signed between the Kingdom of Hungary and the Holy See in the forests of Bereg on 20 August 1233.
In 2024, the United States surpassed Qatar as the world's largest producer of the gas, having extracted 68 million SCM of helium that year compared to Qatar's 64 million SCM.
However, these lists have been useful to historians as a partial census of population, a guideline to estimate it, an important tool for genealogists in search of ancestors from before the English Civil Wars, and for academics interested in last name distributions before the civil wars erupted.
William Barlow made mischief by suggesting Parsons in any case was second fiddle to Robert Bellarmine.
Maurice Fauget was a Canadian athletics official best known for taking the Judge's Oath at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
The Order of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mercy requires that its members take a fourth vow to die for another who is in danger of losing their faith.
Charlotte, Grand Duchess of Luxembourg Charlotte succeeded her older sister, Marie-Adélaïde, who abdicated on January 15, 1919.
Some of such lieges they keep in prison until they paid ransom, or until they purged themselves of the death of the said rebels.
Moreover, whatever accrues to the professed after renunciation belongs to the institute according to the norm of proper law.
Edwards was named to the team representing the US at the 1987 William Jones Cup competition in Taipei, Taiwan.
Similar practices have also been observed dating to the High Medieval Period in France and among the slavic peoples, although scholars have not reached a consensus over, whether and to what extent, they are influenced by the Germanic traditions.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed.
The imposition of the Black Oath was related to the larger context of religious and political matters leading up to and including the Bishops' Wars of 1639 and 1640 in Scotland and northern England and the Wars of the Three Kingdoms (1639–1653) overall.
However, penalty for violating the oath was not specified in the laws, and the District Councillors were not included in the categories.
When the Youth Olympics were created the IOC decided to have an oath for coaches as they realised that young athletes look to them particularly.
References External links IOC 1928 Winter Olympics Nordic combined results: 1924-36 Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine
At the time the election of Eugene was being challenged by Zinzinnus, the candidate of the Roman populace.
The original Sanskrit version is also available as an ebook in the portal of the National Institute of Indian Medical Heritage, Hyderabad.
According to Dhammika, this second article is equivalent to the Hippocratic Oath's third and fourth stipulation that the physician shall never do anything to harm a patient, even if asked to do so.
He did not compete until 2007 because of a shoulder injury in 2005 and returned at +100 kg At the 2008 All-Japan Judo Championships, Inoue lost to Yohei Takai by ippon, which ended his hopes of joining the Olympic team headed for Beijing.
The military oath used to be available only to members of the church, however, current legislation no longer makes such a distinction.
The oath consists of a preamble followed by seven articles, each of them derived from four passages from the Pāḷi Canon.
"Opera and Ballet in Seventeenth-Century French Theatres: Case Studies of the Salle des Machines and the Palais Royal Theater", pp.
As Canada is officially bilingual in English and French, the presiding official leads new citizens in both languages at citizenship ceremonies.
Falkanger earned a silver medal at the 1952 Winter Olympics in ski jumping and also won the Holmenkollen ski festival ski jumping competition twice (1949 and 1950).
The play opened in the United States at Shubert Theatre in Boston (18 and 19 September 1998) and then continued at City Center Theatre in Manhattan, New York City (23 to 27 September 1998), receiving a very positive review from The New York Times.
In reply to a posthumous treatise of Barclay, Bellarmine wrote a Tractatus de potestate summi pontificis in rebus temporalibus.
The prize offered for the victors was a wreath of white poplar, a tree which was sacred to the god, due to the brilliance of its shining leaves.
Olympics Boin was part of the Belgian water polo teams that finished second in 1908 and third in 1912.
The final 2017 resolution passed indicated a need for further investigation, and for WOSM to take into consideration a member organization's "culture and civilization" if asked to approve changes to their Promise or Law.
The purpose of the student oath is to remind students of their obligations to their art, instructors, fellow students, people outside of their school, and to society at large.
Equivalent in other languages Croatian In Croatia, the text of presidential oath, which is defined by the Presidential Elections Act amendments of 1997 (Article 4), ends with "Tako mi Bog pomogao" (So help me God).
The right hand is raised, with the index finger and middle finger extended upwards; the last two digits are curled downwards against the palm.
Text of the pledge Controversy Unlike the current pledge which pledges allegiance to the state of South Korea, the 1972 pledge rather pledged allegiance to the "Korean nation" or "Korean ethnicity" (translated as "Korean race" by some critics such as Brian Reynolds Myers), also known as the minjok.
It was sung for the first time on the floor of the House of Representatives on Flag Day, June 14, 1955, by the official Air Force choral group the "Singing Sergeants".
The National Centre for History and Education in Australia said that "[i]t was a spontaneous gesture of sportsmanship and it has never been forgotten." Sculptor Mitch Mitchell created a bronze sculpture of the moment when Landy helps Clarke to his feet.
His most successful World Championship was in 1982 in Schladming, Austria where he received the silver medal in slalom.
A perpetually professed religious who wishes to renounce his or her goods either partially or totally according to the norm of proper law and with the permission of the supreme moderator is to do the same.
2) was passed by the Parliament of England in November 1534, and required all subjects to take an oath to uphold the Act of Succession passed that March.
†People who are not yet Australian citizens but feel a strong connection to Australia may join in at the second line.
The word testimony is used to refer to the ways in which Friends testify or bear witness to their faith in their everyday lives.
German writer Hanns Martin Elster (1910–1998) complained on 28 October 1933 that writers not listed could be mistakenly thought to lack loyalty to the Führer.
McConnell's motion suggested, instead, that municipal representatives swear an oath to "the country, province, and community".
Kościuszko's Uprising (1794) The Oath of Tadeusz Kościuszko, sworn in the old town market of Kraków on 24 March 1794, at the outbreak of the Kościuszko Uprising.
In 2008, he was named a Member of the Order of Australia for "service to water polo as a player, referee, coach and administrator, and to the community, particularly through executive positions with a range of sporting and charitable organisations ".
In 1599 a letter signed by James had been sent to Pope Clement VIII, requesting him to give a cardinal's hat to William Chisholm, a kinsman of James Elphinstone, 1st Lord Balmerino, and expressing high regard for the Pope and the Catholic faith.
Neither party was able to develop the conflicts further at this point, as the Irish, fearing the imposition of Protestantism in their Catholic land rebelled and that country descended into chaos.
From the mid-8th century onward, under the Carolingian kingdom and empire, the role of the oath was reinforced and generalized.
Thus in Venice too, the Doges of Venice were accustomed to take such oaths, or promissioni, which covered both matters political as well as matters of criminal law; the earliest of which is the collection of penal guidelines known as the promissione del maleficio of Orio Mastropiero (r.
He charged them never to commit outrage or murder, always to flee treason, and to give mercy to those who asked for mercy, upon pain of the forfeiture of their honor and status as a knight of King Arthur's forever more.
He held national records in the 110 m hurdles (1908 – 15.8; 1922 – 15.4), 400 m hurdles (1913 – 57.0; 1920 – 57.0/56.0/55.6), high jump (1907 – 1.79; 1908 – 1.80/1.885), and 4 × 400 m relay (1922 – 3:24.0).
Pollay took the Judge's Oath at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, the first for an official in the Summer Olympics to do so.
See also Australia men's Olympic water polo team records and statistics References External links Peter Kerr at Olympedia Australian Water Polo, Inc.
I therefore believe it is my duty to my country to love it, to support its Constitution, to obey its laws, to respect its flag, and to defend it against all enemies.
Tamata may be bought in shops selling Greek Orthodox religious items, and then hung with a ribbon on a pole or hooks near an icon or shrine of a saint, the act of which is usually accompanied with a prayer, and sometimes with the lighting of a votive candle.
The term is often used to refer solely to the 18th part of the vow in particular (sometimes just called the 18th vow), which is very important for Pure Land Buddhist doctrine, especially in Japanese Buddhism.
References External links IOC 2002 Winter Olympics SV Quietly 2005 article featuring church US Ski Team 2003 article on awards, including Church's.
The Oath is required under New Zealand law to be made in certain circumstances, including as a requirement for individuals to hold certain offices, as well in judicial proceedings.
At the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, he won a silver medal with the Chinese team and finished sixth on the parallel bars.
The seventh and final article requires the physician to minister to the patient even if all the signs indicate that he or she is not responding to the treatment and will probably die.
Essexville, Michigan's McDermott was a surprise winner in the 500 m at the 1964 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck when he beat the favorite in that distance, two-time defending Olympic champion Yevgeny Grishin, by half a second.
The oath Red Army period Strictly maintain secrecy, obey discipline, sacrifice personal interests, engage in class struggle, strive for revolution, and never betray the Party.
Each oath taker is from the host nation and takes the oath on behalf of all athletes, officials, or coaches at the Games.
Provisions The act required all those asked to take the oath to recognise Anne Boleyn as King Henry VIII's lawful wife and their children legitimate heirs to the throne.
lovar och svär, vid Gud och Hans Heliga Evangelium, att jag städse skall vara min rätte Konung, den Stormäktigste Furste och Herre, N.N., Sveriges, Götes och Vendes Konung, samt det Kungl.
India Oath/Affirmation: I do (swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm) that what I shall state shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
In 2001 he was chosen as the best Belarusian athlete of the 20th century and in 2003 became one of the first 10 inductees to the FILA International Wrestling Hall of Fame.
Australian nationality was created by the Nationality and Citizenship Act 1948, which came into effect on 26 January 1949.
Military career Having received training as a pilot, in April 1935 Finlay was commissioned as a pilot officer.
Provisions Repealed enactments Section 8 of the act repealed 59 enactments, listed in the schedule to the act, so far as they applied to Scotland.
See also Declaration of Helsinki Medical ethics Nightingale Pledge Nuremberg code Oath of Asaph Physician's Oath Primum non nocere == References ==
The act would have expired in seven years but, in 1702, Parliament extended it for another eleven years by the Affirmation by Quakers Act 1701 13 & 14 Will.
Religious orders Camillians The Camillians take a fourth vow of service to the sick, even in danger of death.
Several dozen Olympic and world champion athletes, through the Laureus Sports for Good Foundation, work to assist disadvantaged youths around the world.
History The sculpture was installed in 1991 in a fountain under a canopy at the base of the Criterion Building, on the corner where Haymarket meets Coventry Street, near Piccadilly Circus in London.
I will remember that I do not treat a fever chart, a cancerous growth, but a sick human being, whose illness may affect the person's family and economic stability.
Pressured by financial concerns after his move to the United States in 1940, and influenced by his fascination with Hollywood, Dalí shifted focus away from his earlier exploration of the subconscious and perception, and towards historical and scientific themes.
This ceremony would have taken place months before Francis supposedly created the pledge during August of that same year, according to his own testimony.
He won gold medals in the team all-around, individual all-around, high bar and parallel bars at the 1993 National Gymnastics Games, and went on to win several medals at the World Artistic Gymnastics Championships.
The act's preamble claimed that the act was necessary because Catholics had plotted for "the destruction of this kingdom and the extirpation of the Protestant Religion" despite the "tender regard" the King had shown by not enforcing the many penal laws against them.
After the dissolution of the Soviet Union he was appointed as vice-president of the Belarus Olympic Committee and of the Belarus Wrestling Federation.
Text of the Commissioners for Oaths Act 1889 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
On 30 November 2016, the Court of Appeal (Cheung CJHC, Lam VP, and Poon JA) unanimously rejected the appeals by the duo, referring to Beijing's interpretation as giving the "true meaning" to the part of the Basic Law.
Spontaneous uprisings started all over the country, attacking the dispersed occupation forces — who, in their turn, retaliated.
This responsibility, however, seemed to crush Rocca and stunted his progress, together with another knee accident.
Dénis held the Dutch caps record from 3 May 1925 (when he equaled the total of Bok de Korver) until 2 May 1937 (when his total was surpassed by Puck van Heel).
Unlawful Oaths Acts may be a generic name either for legislation bearing that short title or for all legislation which relates to the unlawful oaths.
Members of the House of Commons could also be fined £500, and have their seat declared vacant "as if [they] were dead", if they attempt to do so.
The epithet pn bʿl ("the face of Baal") is reflected on Punic masks of faces from Carthage, featuring the symbol of Baal Hammon on them, literally the "face of Baal" – pn bʿl.
The value of a man’s oath might vary with his status; sometimes it was necessary for a defendant to meet a charge by assembling oaths of a prescribed monetary value.
Rhodes The island of Rhodes was an important cult center for Helios, one of the only places where he was worshipped as a major deity in ancient Greece.
Research history The first short description (with an incomplete reading of the inscription) was published by Edward L.
This became the basis for the Roman Salute, which would be then used to signify allegiance to fascist Italy and later the Nazi Party.
Although court voting was conducted in secret, belief in divine punishment reinforced the oath's significance.
One of the earliest attested covenants between parties is the so-called Mitanni treaty, dating to the 14th or 15th century BC, between the Hittites and the Mitanni.
The oath The ephebic oath is preserved on an inscription from Acharnae, which was written in the mid-fourth century BC.
to my weddyd housbonde to hau and to holden fro this day forward, for bettere, for wers, for richere for porere, in seknesse and in helthe to be boneyre and buxsum in bedde and at borde, tyl deth us departe, zif holi cherche hit wyle ordeyne and there to y plight the my treuthe.
Polish text W obliczu Boga Wszechmogącego i Najświętszej Maryi Panny, Królowej Korony Polskiej, przysięgam być wierny Ojczyźnie mej, Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej.
In modern times, with many formal laws and regulations to maintain army discipline, it is still a solemn, but rather a formal event.
As the ECHR rightly stated in its report, it would be contradictory to make the exercise of a mandate intended to represent different views of society within Parliament subject to a prior declaration of commitment to a particular set of beliefs" (Para.
It includes strict abstinence from sexual relations before marriage and complete fidelity and loyalty to one's spouse after marriage.
See also Oath of allegiance Oath of office Oath of citizenship Notes References External links Governor-General's Media Fact Sheet: The Oath Oaths of Allegiance and the Canadian House of Commons Oaths of Allegiance Act
As the Constitution Act provides the government of the United Kingdom with two years to disallow an enactment upon receipt of an official copy of the legislation, an Act of Canadian Parliament cannot be disallowed under section 56 as it can not be received by the British government.
In the final round of the match, the judges failed to award Stevenson two points for a high-kick to the head, which would have put her one point in the lead with 10 seconds remaining.
The swearing of the oath has been described by German historian and former Hitler Youth member Hermann Graml as part of the "cult-like" nature of the organisation key to attracting recruits.
My Law: is to protect my juniors, respect my elders, to love my country, my nation more than myself.
This meeting of the world's two fastest milers was alternately called "The Miracle Mile", the "Race of the Century", and the "Dream Race"; it was heard over the radio by 100 million people and seen on television by millions more.
In the Catholic Church, by joining the consecrated life, one does not become a member of the hierarchy but becomes a member of a state of life which is neither clerical nor lay, the consecrated state.
The oath ceremony is held either at the garrison or in another symbolic place, for example the Guard Battalion gives their oath in location of the Battle of Sõjamäe.
From the coronation of Richard I onwards, there was considerable variation in the actual text of the oath.
Against her father's wishes, she arrived in Japan in 1988 and played for Hitachi Takasaki, which was managed by Taeko Utsugi.
At the opening ceremony of the 1994 Winter Olympic Games, he took the ceremonial Olympic Oath on part of all the athletes.
The Seventeen Rules of Enjuin (延寿院医則十七ヶ条) are a code of conduct developed for students of the Japanese Ri-shu school of medicine in the 16th century CE.
55, sometimes called the Unlawful Oaths (Ireland) Act 1845, the Unlawful Oaths Amendment and Continuance Act, or the Unlawful Oaths Act.
Inoue was replaced by Satoshi Ishii, who defeated Keiji Suzuki in the final bout of the 2008 AJJC (International Herald Tribune, April 29, 2008) and won a gold medal in the 2008 Olympic Games.
~ Klaus Zierer - 2022 See also Hippocratic Oath Massachusetts Teachers' Oath Socrates Teachers day International Day of Education References Further reading Oaths of loyalty for teachers American federation of teachers, 1935 Anthony J.
She later trained at Sportcity in Manchester and is a member of the Allstars Taekwondo Academy in Doncaster.
The vow of enclosure is a religious vow made by some branches of the Poor Clares in addition to the three vows of obedience, poverty and chastity.
The river Lamos is often treated as the border between the ancient regions of Rough Cilicia (Kilikia Tracheia) in the west and Flat Cilicia (Kilikia Pedias) in the east.
Nevertheless, before Pope Leo XIII's reforms in the 19th century, these simple vows constituted them religious in the true and proper sense of the word, with the consequent privileges and exemption of regulars, including the vows being a diriment impediment to matrimony, etc.
The judge also ruled that Legislative Council President Andrew Leung had no power to arrange a second oath-taking for the pair, adding that he had made his conclusions independently of the NPCSC interpretation.
In Mormonism, a penalty is a specified punishment for breaking an oath of secrecy after receiving the Nauvoo endowment ceremony.
Biography Kosei Inoue won the gold medal at the 2000 Sydney Olympics in the -100 kg division, most notably doing so by winning every single match by ippon.
The Conservatives bested the Liberals only in British Columbia; Mackenzie had called the terms by which the province had joined Confederation "impossible".
This was intended to facilitate a discriminatory tax on Catholics because, the act claimed, they should pay any "large share to all such Extraordinary Expenses as are and shall be brought upon this Kingdom by their Treachery and Instigation".
Here every year, three tragedians competed against each other, each writing a tetralogy of three tragedies and a satyr play (alongside Medea were Philoctetes, Dictys and the satyr play Theristai).
At the same time, already in the very first surviving example, that of Doge Dandolo in 1193, it contained a set of restrictions on the Doge's power, such as a prohibition on conducting direct correspondence with foreign princes, or of meddling in the election of the Patriarch of Venice.
In May 2009, the University of Massachusetts Boston awarded Moses an honorary doctorate for his efforts to maintain the integrity of Olympic sports and for his use of sports as a tool for positive social change.
The oath of office ceremony of Imran Khan, the 22nd Prime Minister of Pakistan, was held at the President House in Islamabad on 18 August 2018.
They immediately feared the worst and were anxious that an attack was imminent from King Louis XVI, so upon the suggestion of one of their members Joseph-Ignace Guillotin, the deputies congregated in a nearby indoor tennis court near the Palace of Versailles.
The Oath crisis (Polish: Kryzys przysięgowy; German: Eidkrise) was a political conflict during World War I between the Imperial German Army command and the Józef Piłsudski-led Polish Legions.
Indian religious texts Both Vedic Mitra and Avestan Mithra derive from an Indo-Iranian common noun *mitra-, generally reconstructed to have meant "covenant, treaty, agreement, promise." This meaning is preserved in Avestan miθra "covenant".
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services retracted their demand after receiving letters from the Freedom From Religion Foundation and the American Humanist Association that objected based on Welsh v.
would later go into filmmaking in 1967, then follow into Bogner Sr.'s footsteps and start his own ski collection in 1971.
In the latter case, Hrafnkell reflects on his vow, saying "[o]ften we shall repent when we speak too much but seldom we would rue it if we had spoken less".
In the Mahabharata, Devrata took an oath of celibacy so that Satyavati's father would marry her to Devrata's father, King Shantanu.
Vegard Ulvang (born 10 October 1963) is a retired Norwegian cross-country skier who won three Olympic gold medals, two silver, and one bronze.
In the case of an electronically filed tax return, the taxpayer has to provide certain specific information—a social security number for example—to "sign" the jurat.
Myanmar - Myanmar President Win Myint attended the ceremony on behalf of state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi who was on her visit to Europe.
Weber was honored by the Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG - International Gymnastics Federation) as an honorary judge in January 2005 for her officiating work at all levels of gymnastics (US, World Championships, Summer Olympics).
The Pledge of Allegiance: A Revised History and Analysis, 1892–2007 (Free State Press, Inc.) ISBN 978-0-9650620-2-2 Excerpt, Chapter Eight: "'Under God' and Other Questions About the Pledge".
Subsequent developments The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and schedule 1 to, the Promissory Oaths Act 1871 (34 & 35 Vict.
This was largely aimed at the oligarchic wealthy who hoped to gain the assistance of Sparta or Persia in their revolts.
Shea was killed in a head-on automobile collision by a drunk driver 17 days before he was to watch his grandson participate in the Salt Lake Games.
On 17 June the Third Estate began to call itself the National Assembly, led by Jean Sylvain Bailly and Honoré Gabriel Riqueti, Comte de Mirabeau, who took prominent roles in much of early stages of the Revolution.
These may be represented either as flat, on the same plane as the circlet of the crown, or rising at right angles to it.
Individuals reciting the Pledge shall clench their right fists to the left side of their chests as a gesture to symbolise loyalty to the nation.
From at least December 2020, the sculpture was behind a security fence and the fountain was not operating.
Hawkes spent eight years as the captain of the Australian Women's Hockey Team, the Hockeyroos, and became the second Australian woman after swimmer Dawn Fraser to win three Olympic gold medals at three separate Olympic Games: Seoul 1988, Atlanta 1996 and Sydney 2000.
The context window is the maximum length of input a large language model (LLM) can consider at once.
Although RBMT systems usually provide a mechanism to create new rules and extend and adapt the lexicon, changes are usually very costly and the results, frequently, do not pay off.
For example, in contracted English braille, the word think (5 letters) is rendered as 3 characters: ⠹⠢⠅ (th)(in)k.
Among the top 100 words in the English language, which make up more than 50% of all written English, the average word has more than 15 senses, which makes the odds against a correct translation about 15 to 1 if each sense maps to a different word in the target language.
EuroMatrixPlus succeeded a project called EuroMatrix (September 2006 to February 2009) and continued in further development and improvement of machine translation (MT) systems for languages of the European Union (EU).
UNLization is intended to be carried out semi-automatically (i.e., by humans with computer aids), and NLization is intended to be carried out automatically.
It is designed to answer users' questions correctly, while reducing the risk of unsafe and inappropriate answers.
UML diagrams For instance, within LMF, a multilingual notation could be as presented in the following diagram, for English / French translation.
A more recent and popular approach for representing sentences is Sentence-BERT, or SentenceTransformers, which modifies pre-trained BERT with the use of siamese and triplet network structures.
This mobile translation system could recognize 50,000 Japanese words and 30,000 English words, and could be used for simple translations when travelling.
The LRC concentrated on German English translation, though a copy of the Russian Master Dictionary was deposited at the LRC after the ALPAC report.
Legal disputes over Weidner's assets eventually required court intervention, leading to a court-ordered liquidation.
Orphaned before the outbreak of war, Dostert was well liked by the American troops he worked for – so much so, in fact, that a few of them sponsored his education in the United States after the war.
GGUF file format The GGUF (GGML Universal File) file format is a binary format that stores both tensors and metadata in a single file, and is designed for fast saving, and loading of model data.
Chroma or ChromaDB is open-source data infrastructure tailored to applications with large language models.
Another problem is that it is difficult to extract meaning from texts in the original languages to create the intermediate representation.
Once text was input into the translation system, the software generated a list of untranslatable terms from the source material.
Its report, issued in 1966, gained notoriety for being very skeptical of research done in machine translation so far, and emphasizing the need for basic research in computational linguistics; this eventually caused the U.S.
Product features A single click on any text using the right mouse button or combination of the right mouse button and a keyboard modifier, and the Babylon window appears providing a translation and definition of the clicked term.
is an American company founded in 2022 and headquartered in Palo Alto, California, that specializes in generative artificial intelligence research and technologies.
SMT essentially uses statistical data such as parameters and probabilities derived from the bitext, in which preprocessing the data is essential and even if the input is in the training data, the same translation is not guaranteed to occur.
The results continued to be questionable, but King declared it a success, stating in Scientific American that the system was "...found, in an operational evaluation, to be quite useful by the Government." Mark II On 4 October 1957 the USSR launched Sputnik 1, the first artificial satellite.
Moses is free and open-source software, released under the GNU Library Public License (LGPL), and available as source code and binary files for Windows and Linux.
To him, translation units have a tendency to be small groups of language building up into sentences, thus forming what he called meaningful mouthfuls of language.
A higher MAUVE score indicates the model distribution Q {\displaystyle Q} is more similar to the human distribution P {\displaystyle P} .
If, instead of the Latin ones, the English cardinal numbers are furtherly used, then they are called "four-gram", "five-gram", etc.
Another advanced version of LEPOR is the nLEPOR metric, which adds the n-gram features into the previous factors.
According to the generation preferences, one of the derived strings is picked and the target language string is realised as spoken language.
NIST also differs from BLEU in its calculation of the brevity penalty insofar as small variations in translation length do not impact the overall score as much.
It relies on computer programming in the sphere of computational linguistics and the device's communication means (Internet connection or SMS) to work.
ChromaDB has been used in academic studies on artificial intelligence, particularly as part of the tech stack for retrieval-augmented generation.
It can be computed as a inverse of (geometric) average probability of test set T P P L ( D ) = 1 m ( T ) N = 2 − 1 N log 2 ⁡ ( m ( T ) ) , {\displaystyle \mathrm {PPL} (D)={\sqrt[{N}]{\frac {1}{m(T)}}}=2^{-{\frac {1}{N}}\log _{2}\left(m(T)\right)},} where N is the number of tokens in test set T.
Amália is a Portuguese large language model (LLM) announced in November 2024 by the Portuguese Prime-Minister Luís Montenegro.
In more detail, it is a masked cross-attention mechanism, where the queries are from the query stream, and the key-value pairs are from the content stream.
Fourth, new language pairs can be developed just by finding suitable parallel corpus data, if possible.
The computer system analyzes the data and matches it to English words, which are then spoken aloud by a digital voice.
ProMT is a lead Russian developer of language translation software for businesses and private users since 1991.
For example, the Google Translate app allows foreigners to quickly translate text in their surrounding via augmented reality using the smartphone camera that overlays the translated text onto the text.
Project Bergamot is a joint project between several European universities and Mozilla for the development of machine translation software based on artificial neural networks, which is intended for local execution on end-user devices.
Comparison with other metrics Advantages MAUVE has shown a much higher correlation with human judgement in tasks like web text generation compare to earlier metrics.
Sparrow is trained using human judgements, in order to be more “Helpful, Correct and Harmless” compared to baseline pre-trained language models.
But in the specific context of a lexical resource that is a bilingual lexicon, the term bilingual link is usually preferred.
It is widely considered the most effective method of smoothing due to its use of absolute discounting by subtracting a fixed value from the probability's lower order terms to omit n-grams with lower frequencies.
Overview MMLU consists of 15,908 multiple-choice questions, with 1,540 of them being used to select and assess optimal settings for models – temperature, batch size and learning rate.
The project experimented with combining methods and resources from statistical MT, rule-based MT, shallow language processing and computational lexicography and morphology.
The query stream uses the cross-attention mask P ( M causal − ∞ I ) P − 1 {\displaystyle P(M_{\text{causal}}-\infty I)P^{-1}} , where the diagonal is subtracted away specifically to avoid the model "cheating" by looking at the content stream for what the current masked token is.
It accomplishes this estimation by backing off through progressively shorter history models under certain conditions.
While originally sold in and designed for the Japanese market for Japanese users, its translation function operates between all four languages.
In the 2000s, there was a search, and it became clear: to translate the text, does not necessarily understand the meaning.
The term is not used in the context of translation dictionary that concerns mainly hand-held electronic translators.
It contains 3 terabytes of text scraped from web data, 90 terabytes of graphical data (incorporating 630 million text/image pairs), and 181 gigabytes of Chinese dialogue (incorporating 1.4 billion dialogue rounds).
It was only available as a smartphone app but it has since launched its own website and has expanded to other languages.
By doing so, the model with the most reliable information about a given history is used to provide the better results.
History In 2024 it was announced that the Portuguese Agency for Administrative Modernization (Agência para a Modernização Administrativa) transpose this LLM to Portuguese Public Administration.
LSI focuses on the translation of legal, medical, business, institutional, academic, government and personal documents.
It is being developed by Center for Responsible AI (Centro para a AI Responsável) and by the research centers of NOVA School of Science and Technology and Instituto Superior Técnico.
Bernard Vauquois' last contribution was "static grammar" (grammaire statique) in 1982–83, during the ESOPE project, the preparatory phase of the French national MT project.
See also Notes and references External links Annotated list of statistical natural language processing resources — Includes links to freely available statistical machine translation software
Training Two models were released: XLNet-Large, cased: 110M parameters, 24-layer, 1024-hidden, 16-heads XLNet-Base, cased: 340M parameters, 12-layer, 768-hidden, 12-heads.
This Google translator output doesn't parse using a reasonable English grammar: وعن حوادث التدافع عند شعيرة رمي الجمرات -التي كثيرا ما يسقط فيها العديد من الضحايا- أشار الأمير نايف إلى إدخال "تحسينات كثيرة في جسر الجمرات ستمنع بإذن الله حدوث أي تزاحم".
Naver Papago (Korean: 네이버 파파고), shortened to Papago and stylized as papago, is a multilingual machine translation cloud service provided by Naver Corporation.
Rules in these grammars apply to two languages at the same time, capturing grammatical structures that are each other's translations.
In contrast, in interactive machine translation the system produces a new translation hypothesis each time the user interacts with the system, i.e.
Only the outermost 4 inches of the disk were used for storage, which increased the linear speed of the portion being accessed.
Efficacy One of the main advantages of this strategy is that it provides an economical way to make multilingual translation systems.
Greater independence from large technology companies and their interests is also mentioned as an important advantage.
The factored language model (FLM) is an extension of a conventional language model introduced by Jeff Bilmes and Katrin Kirchoff in 2003.
Sparrow is a chatbot developed by the artificial intelligence research lab DeepMind, a subsidiary of Alphabet Inc.
Researchers found that when a program is trained on 203,529 sentence pairings, accuracy actually decreases.
Whichever metric is used, however, one major theoretical problem in assessing the performance of a system is deciding whether a word has been “mis-pronounced,” i.e.
Instead of assigning a more appropriate value of 0, the method will back off to the bigram and estimate P(c | b), which may be too high.
Kneser–Ney smoothing, also known as Kneser–Essen–Ney smoothing, is a method primarily used to calculate the probability distribution of n-grams in a document based on their histories.
History memoQ, a translation environment tool first released in 2006, was the first product created by memoQ Translation Technologies, a company founded in Hungary by the three language technologists Balázs Kis, István Lengyel and Gábor Ugray.
Distributed Language Translation (Esperanto: Distribuita Lingvo-Tradukado, DLT) was a project to develop an interlingual machine translation system for twelve European languages.
Phrase-based translation In phrase-based translation, the aim is to reduce the restrictions of word-based translation by translating whole sequences of words, where the lengths may differ.
His research in machine translation resulted in the development of several state-of-the-art language translation and artificial intelligence systems.
History Memsource was founded in 2010 by David Čaněk, with Memsource Cloud having a public launch at the beginning of 2011.
In addition, there is ongoing effort towards changing the typical left-to-right interaction scheme in order to make human-machine interaction easier.
The 19,386,697 XML files measure a total of 621 GB and are hosted by the Information Retrieval Facility.
Dynamic programming variants of the CYK algorithm find the Viterbi parse of a RNA sequence for a PCFG model.
While the user can input text using the device keyboard, they can also use pre-existing text in the form of email or SMS messages received on the user's device (email/SMS translation).
The model can not only write essays, poems and couplets in traditional Chinese, it can both generate alt text based on a static image and generate nearly photorealistic images based on natural language descriptions.
Two-Stream Self-Attention To implement permutation language modeling, XLNet uses a two-stream self-attention mechanism.
Background Originally titled the Linguistics Research System (LRS), it was later renamed METAL (Mechanical Translation and Analysis of Languages).
A more complex situation is when more than two languages are concerned, as in the following diagram dealing with English, Italian and Spanish.
Technological benefits and constraints Advantages Having portable real-time automated translation at one's disposal has a number of practical uses and advantages.
In the sixth Star Trek film, the characters are seen relying on print books in order to communicate with a Klingon military ship, since Chekov said that the Klingons would recognize the use of a Translator.
Speech-to-text dictation Braina Pro can type spoken words into an active window at the location of a user's cursor.
In May 2016, the duo told NPR that they are working more closely with people who use ASL so that they can better understand their audience and tailor their product to the needs of these people rather than the assumed needs.
Yehoshua Bar-Hillel (Hebrew: יהושע בר-הלל; 8 September 1915 – 25 September 1975) was an Israeli philosopher, mathematician, and linguist.
In May 2018, Memsource was granted a patent for its AI non-translatables feature and in October 2018, launched its second AI feature, a quality estimation endpoint to enable users to see MT quality scores before post-editing.
Instead, other methods like statistical machine translation rose to become the state of the art of the 1990s and 2000s.
On June 24, 2025, Google DeepMind released Gemini Robotics On-Device, a variant designed and optimized to run locally on robotic devices.
System Jollo was a free Web 2.0 website that attempted to improve the way in which people translate online through the use of existing machine translation websites and a community of volunteers who correct and rate translations.
Anusaaraka is viewed as the fusion of traditional advanced Indian shastras and advanced contemporary technologies.
Since many medical studies are excluded from systematic reviews because the reviewers do not understand the language, GNMT has the potential to reduce bias and improve accuracy in such reviews.
Even though the main thrust is centred on Linux, two Windows add-ins help to make the bridge from Windows to Linux and then back from Linux.
Recent work on involving an extensive evaluation with human users revealed the fact that interactive machine translation may even be used by users that do not speak the source language in order to achieve near professional translation quality.
See also Human-in-the-loop Reward-based selection References Further reading "Deep reinforcement learning from human preferences".
On 30 June 2023, the company announced a new investment round with JIC Ventures, Garage Angels led by Jiří Hlavenka, and 12 Bullets; the investment round was reported at a €4.5 million valuation.
Development llama.cpp began development in March 2023 by Georgi Gerganov as an implementation of the Llama inference code in pure C/C++ with no dependencies.
A major software update was also incorporated in the Mark II, which King referred to as "dictionary stuffing".
To improve accuracy and help avoid the problem of hallucinating incorrect answers, Sparrow has the ability to search the Internet using Google Search in order to find and cite evidence for any factual claims it makes.
Multimodal training objectives also exist, with some separating images and text during training, while others examine them concurrently.
SignAll SignAll is an automatic sign language translation system provided by Dolphio Technologies in Hungary.
As of 2008, the company had 59 employees of whom 26 are computational experts and 15 computational linguists.
See also COCOA (digital humanities) Cross-reference Ctags KWIC Language industry Statistically improbable phrase == References ==
If Latin numerical prefixes are used, then n-gram of size 1 is called a "unigram", size 2 a "bigram" (or, less commonly, a "digram") etc.
Features While StarDict is in scan mode, results are displayed in a tooltip, allowing easy dictionary lookup.
GNMT's proposed architecture of system learning was first tested on over a hundred languages supported by Google Translate.
In the PANGLOSS example, about 50,000 nodes were intended to be subsumed under the smaller, manually-built upper (abstract) region of the ontology.
The help module scans the corpus for the tagged source language form mapped with the corresponding target language form.
A confusion network (sometimes called a word confusion network or informally known as a sausage) is a natural language processing method that combines outputs from multiple automatic speech recognition or machine translation systems.
Intex also reported that 87% of its regional language usage came from Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, Gujarati and Marathi speakers.
Dostert himself announced the achievement, though the public event itself was more a proof of concept to garner further interest and resources.
TRANSTAC (Spoken Language Communication and Translation System for Tactical Use), though, only focuses on Arabic-English translation.
This is achieved by textual inversion, namely, finding a new text term that correspond to these images.
The software is designed for travelers and entertainment, mostly containing slang and useful travel phrases.
Core areas Machine translation The different versions of Personal Translator (seven language pairs) can be used "for home use" or for professional business use in the company network.
In this scenario, distributional semantic relatedness measures, combined with semantic pivoting heuristics can support the approximation between user queries (expressed in their own vocabulary), and data (expressed in the vocabulary of the designer).
If after using RTT, the resulting text is inaccurate, the source text can then be edited until a satisfactory result is achieved.
Beta version 117 had the feature integrated directly into the browser, the official release was in version 118 from September 2023.
Training requires a parallel corpus of passages in the two languages, typically manually translated sentence pairs.
For example, if we have been trained using some text containing the sentences: President Kennedy was shot dead during the parade.
In 2020, a deepfake video of Joaquin Oliver, a victim of the Parkland shooting, was created as part of a gun safety campaign.
See also SGLang – framework for structured generation and high-performance large language model inference and serving vLLM – large language model inference and serving engine == References ==
Some notable conceptual improvements include the replacement on LLaVA 1.5 of the simple projection module with a more elaborate MLP.
The model introduced advances in photorealism, improved rendering of multi-word text, and increased responsiveness to detailed descriptive prompts.
Globalization of Social Networking: Mobile translation allows chatting and text messaging with friends at an international level.
The first machine, "Mark I", was demonstrated in July 1959 and consisted of a 65,000 word dictionary and a custom tube-based computer to do the lookups.
In this mock "course", he translates every sentence back or forth between English and German at least once (usually from German literally into English).
By contrast, EBMT uses the bitext as its primary data source, in which preprocessing the data is optional and if the input is in the example set, the same translation is to occur.
It helps AI systems approach tasks that require multi-step reasoning, planning, and logical thought.
He was affiliated with the Language Technologies Institute, Computer Science Department, Machine Learning Department, and Computational Biology Department at Carnegie Mellon.
In September 2021, Slator remarked that the language industry response was more measured than the press and noted that DeepL is still highly regarded by users.
developed an approach featuring lexical translation probabilities and relative alignment by mapping the problem to a Hidden Markov model.
BERT pioneered an approach involving the use of a dedicated [CLS] token prepended to the beginning of each sentence inputted into the model; the final hidden state vector of this token encodes information about the sentence and can be fine-tuned for use in sentence classification tasks.
Train: To train the language pairs needed, as Moses is language-independent and can work with any language/alphabet.
Number of languages considerations Within the context of a multilingual database comprising more than two languages, usually the multilingual notations are factorized, in order to save the number of links.
Copyright Only works that are original are subject to copyright protection, so some scholars claim that machine translation results are not entitled to copyright protection because MT does not involve creativity.
Techniques such as chain-of-thought prompting encourage models to generate intermediate reasoning steps, thereby improving their performance in such tasks.
These articles were translated by professional translators into a series of language pairs, and then translated back into English using the machine translation systems.
(memoQ Translation Technologies), formerly Kilgray, a provider of translation management software established in 2004 and cited as one of the fastest-growing companies in the translation technology sector in 2012, and 2013.
To address sensitivity of models and make them more robust, several evaluative methods have been proposed.
The RLHF training utilizes two reward models to capture human judgements: a “preference model” that predicts what a human study participant would prefer and a “rule model” that predicts if the model has broken one of the rules.
A number of the LISA standards are used by the OASIS Open Architecture for XML Authoring and Localization framework.
The first version of the system (METEO 1) went into operation on a Control Data CDC 7600 supercomputer in March 1977.
It counted among its members most of the large information technology companies of the period, including Adobe, Cisco, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, McAfee, Nokia, Novell and Xerox.
The OpenLogos program is based on the Logos Machine Translation System, one of the earliest commercial machine translation programs.
It can also be defined as the practice of designing and refining input instructions given to a generative AI model to produce more accurate, relevant, or useful outputs.
In contrast, Firefox Translations does not require any data to leave the user's computer, resulting in advantages in terms of data protection, availability and possibly response times.
Universalist approaches Universalist approaches use the methods and systems proved to be useful in other languages like English or French making some adaptations if necessary.
Machine translation was also natively supported through the Memsource Translate hub, which included AI-powered management features such as fully managed engines, MT Autoselect and machine translation quality estimation.
Another addition was an optical character reader provided by the third party, which they hoped would eliminate the time-consuming process of copying the Russian text into machine-readable cards.
The consumer-facing translation site known as Bing Translator (previously known as Windows Live Translator) was launched in 2007 and provides free text and website translations on the web.
As of April 2026, translation is available in 201 languages: See also References External links Baidu Fanyi (in Chinese)
Skip-gram model Neural models Recurrent neural network Continuous representations or embeddings of words are produced in recurrent neural network-based language models (known also as continuous space language models).
Usage Mozilla used the Bergamot Translator to expand its web browser Firefox with a feature for translating web pages, which was previously considered an important gap in Firefox' feature set.
The web address for Babel Fish remained at babelfish.altavista.com until May 9, 2008, when the address changed to babelfish.yahoo.com.
There is almost always an ambiguity during word-to-word translation from source to the target language.
Features and expandability Dictionaries and encyclopedias can be installed on Lingoes in the form of new add-ons to extend its functionality.
The distinctive feature of DLT was the use of [a version of] Esperanto as an intermediate language (IL) and the idea that translation could be divided into two stages: from L1 into IL and then from IL into L2.
For some language pairs and for some tasks, and with engines that have been customised with domain specific good quality data, some clients are already requesting translators to post-edit instead of translating from scratch, in the belief that they will attain similar quality at a lower cost.
In January 2016, having undertaken a strategic review, SDL announced the divestment of Fredhopper and Alterian as non-complementary to its new strategy.
ALPAC Report In 1964 the United States Department of Defense commissioned the United States National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to prepare a report on the state of machine translation.
This issue generates a special NULL token that can also have its fertility modeled using a conditional distribution defined as: n ( ∅ ∨ N U L L ) {\displaystyle n(\varnothing \lor NULL)} The number of inserted words depends on sentence length.
Users can edit or correct dictated text without using a keyboard or mouse by giving built-in voice commands.
(Moses and Moses for Mere Mortals allow you to train translation models for any language pair, though collections of translated texts (parallel corpus) need to be provided by the user.
A study published in NeurIPS (NIPS) 2002 introduced the use of both word and document embeddings applying the method of kernel CCA to bilingual (and multi-lingual) corpora, also providing an early example of self-supervised learning of word embeddings.
Services and technologies Akool offers AI-powered tools for content creation, with emphasis on video generation and visual marketing applications.
Languages currently available References EuroMatrix Archived 2011-07-28 at the Wayback Machine Referensboken External links Internettolken home page InternetPreter (English interface) Internettolken's Gadgets
Certain Starfleet programs, such as the Emergency Medical Hologram, have universal translators encoded into the programming.
After the Metal MT, development Rights to the Siemens-Weidner Engine were sold to a Belgium company, Lernout & Hauspie.
A multilingual notation is a representational system designed to encode, describe, or annotate information in a way that is usable across multiple natural languages without being tied to any single one.
Mandrake Tamil Version A notable example is the Tamil version of Mandrake linux(defunct since 2011).
The result is an architecture that is significantly more efficient in processing long sequences compared to previous methods.
(2004) "The Significance of Recall in Automatic Metrics for MT Evaluation" in Proceedings of AMTA 2004, Washington DC.
The infinite canvas interface provides access to a range of creation and refinement tools within a single environment.
Since typewriters were mechanical and could not include a script processor engine, each character had to be placed on the keyboard separately, which resulted in a very complex and difficult to learn keyboard layout.
Language models A language model is an essential component of any statistical machine translation system, which aids in making the translation as fluent as possible.
Since 1996 and 2005 keylogging and eyetracking technologies were introduced in Translation Process Research.
OpenAI's policy director called Wu Dao an example of "model diffusion", a neologism describing a situation in which multiple entities develop models similar to OpenAI's.
The cache language model was first proposed in a paper published in 1990, after which the IBM speech-recognition group experimented with the concept.
Adi Vaani is a large language model-based translator tool developed around tribal languages in India.
This architecture addresses common limitations of standard LLMs, including hallucination, outdated information, and lack of attribution to source materials.
Non-standard speech One of the major pitfalls of MT is its inability to translate non-standard language with the same accuracy as standard language.
With the release of SYSTRAN Server 7 in 2010, SYSTRAN implemented a hybrid rule-based/statistical machine translation (SMT) technology which was the first of its kind in the marketplace.
On June 6, 2022, Apple announced six new languages, Turkish, Indonesian, Polish, Dutch, Thai and Vietnamese.
The translation page first appeared in 2009, utilizing PROMT, and was also built into Yandex Browser itself, to assist in translation for websites.
The symbols may be n adjacent letters (including punctuation marks and blanks), syllables, or rarely whole words found in a language dataset; or adjacent phonemes extracted from a speech-recording dataset, or adjacent base pairs extracted from a genome.
General features Moses allows the training of corpora where every word is presented together with, for instance, its respective lemma and/or part of speech tag (“factored training”).
LLaVA 1.0 LLaVA (Large Language and Vision Assistant) 1.0 is a simple model which captures some of the main concepts of open-source VLMs.
Braina uses natural language interface, speech synthesis, and speech recognition technology to interact with its users and allows them to use natural language sentences to perform various tasks on a computer.
Mark I In 1954 IBM gave an influential demonstration of machine translation, known today as the "Georgetown–IBM experiment".
These areas include machine translation, search engines (including founding of Lycos by Michael Mauldin, one of Carbonell’s PhD students), speech synthesis, and education.
It also allows comparing two different systems in a visual and interactive manner which is useful for system development.[9] Performance BLEU has frequently been reported as correlating well with human judgement,[10][11][12] and remains a benchmark for the assessment of any new evaluation metric.
The motivation for developing hybrid machine translation systems stems from the failure of any single technique to achieve a satisfactory level of accuracy.
PCFG in homology search Covariance models (CMs) are a special type of PCFGs with applications in database searches for homologs, annotation and RNA classification.
Intrinsic reflection Integrates self-monitoring directly into the model architecture rather than relying solely on external prompts, enabling models with inherent awareness of their reasoning limitations and uncertainties.
(A) 0 │ (B) 1 │ (C) 2 │ (D) 3 Question 2: Would a reservation to the definition of torture in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) be acceptable in contemporary practice?
Written for visualizing tomography data, electron-microscopy data and the like, it aims to ease understanding of data sets and to assist with conveying that understanding to the research community or to lay persons.
Extended services package Other than the name supposes, in this package essential and ever-used objects are defined.
It offers capabilities, like viewing medical data (computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), etc.) in two- and three-dimensional space directly in the standard web browsers, like Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari, and Microsoft Edge.
The nomenclature is divided in partitions, to demarcate codes with regards to content and functions.
In most use cases the manager is only used to remotely monitor and display agent data, but in some cases it may also remotely control the agents.
Now that HL7 has promised to relax its previously closed IP policy, including offering CDA free for use, it is possible that CDA will become the preferred form of encoding, but VNAs will still need to accept (and possibly transcode) reports in a plethora of form from the installed base.
ITK-SNAP is most frequently used to work with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) and computed tomography (CT) data sets.
The second was the introduction of computer-assisted surgery, where artificial intelligence enhances the safety of the surgeon's movements during a procedure, rendering them more accurate, while introducing the concept of distance between the surgeon and the patient.
The rotation of the magnets within the Niobe pods influences the magnetic catheters in the heart to make micro movements of the catheter tip (in increments of 1 mm to 9 mm) to navigate throughout the four chambers of the heart.
While the three core standards have been approved and published by the IEEE as well as by ISO, PKIPs and DevSpecs are currently under development.
Internet meme Footage and images of the da Vinci Surgical System peeling the skin of a grape became part of an internet meme in November 2018.
The N-localizer is a device that enables guidance of stereotactic surgery or radiosurgery using tomographic images that are obtained via computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or positron emission tomography (PET).
AIJ is used for multi-aperture differential photometry and exoplanet transit modeling, with built-in support for modifying aperture and annulus radii, choosing target and comparison objects simply by clicking, adjusting transit priors, and exporting data as a FITS and/or XML file.
Associate Members Each national or international association with similar objectives, as well as any educational institution, industry, company or organization that is active in the area may apply for associate membership and become an affiliated society.
Further, some plugins require specific versions of ImageJ, specific versions of third-party libraries, or additional Java components such as the Java compiler or Java 3D.
Visual and haptic feedback is provided to the surgeon by the HD-display in front of him and the force/torque reflecting input devices respectively.
Carlo Pappone, an Italian surgeon, has developed a software program that uses data collected from several surgeons and thousands of operations to perform the surgery without human intervention.
Unassisted robotic surgery As the techniques of expert surgeons are studied and stored in special computer systems, robots might one day be able to perform surgeries with little or no human input.
This resulted in patient receiving the best care possible while remaining in their hometown, the less experienced surgeon gaining valuable experience, and the expert surgeon providing their expertise without travel.
The default Pipeline package includes the JGDIPlugin and the DRMAAPlugin plugins created for Sun Grid Engine but they may work with Oracle Grid Engine, Univa Grid Engine or Son of Grid Engine.
The system is used to deliver radiosurgery for the treatment of benign tumors, malignant tumors and other medical conditions.
The projects included applications in medical image computing, medical visualization, neurobiology, confocal microscopy, flow visualization, molecular analytics and computational astrophysics.
Image-guided surgery using medical ultrasound utilises sounds waves and as such does not require the protection and safety precautions necessary with ionising radiation modalities such as fluoroscopy, CT, X-Ray and tomography.
It aims at developing integrative models at all levels of biological organization, from genes to the whole organisms via gene regulatory networks, protein pathways, integrative cell functions, and tissue and whole organ structure/function relations.
Assessment of cancer genetics Lung tumor biological mechanisms may demonstrate distinct and complex imaging patterns.
Professor Edward Bullmore and Professor Mick Brammer wrote a small package of software components to process functional magnetic resonance imaging data, which at that time was an emerging technology.
See also Neurophysiological Biomarker Toolbox (MatLab) EEGLAB (MatLab) NeuroKit (Python) == References ==
This device did however not solve the calculation needs for quantification, nor the long acquisition times.
Following these developments, Samadi resigned from his position at Lenox Hill Hospital and subsequently established a private practice.
This method provided improved surgical guidance and was in fact the first development of computer guided surgery.
The method allows identification of all cancerous formations in the body, regardless of their size or degree of development.
In January 2026 Stereotaxis' proprietary robotically-navigated magnetic ablation catheter was approved by the FDA.
The workstation consists of a monitor on which an image of the work area is shown, plus a number of force-feedback joysticks.
Disadvantages According to a paper presented at an international symposium in 2008, the DICOM standard has problems related to data entry.
These maps are generated by using the MR scanner not to acquire an image, but to measure magnetic properties in the tissue.
This terminology is used as distinct from a traditional Picture Archiving and Communications Systems (PACS), although there is debate about where the boundary between a VNA and a PACS lies along the continuum of their common features.
Recently, the different approaches for guided surgery in the field of Oral Implantology were classified under the wider term "Computer Assisted Implant Surgery" (CAIS).
Benefits of PET–CT By diagnosing with the help of a PET–CT, the advantages of the two individual methods are combined, and the result considerably exceeds images obtained by the two devices taken separately.
The Vattikuti Foundation The Vattikuti Foundation was registered with the State of Michigan as a nonprofit on October 30, 1997 and is named after Raj Vattikuti and his wife, Padma Vattikuti.
Official packages are available for numerous Linux distributions including Debian, Ubuntu and Fedora.
Patient Engagement: Recent changes in the healthcare industry have placed more emphasis on empowering patients to control and have access to more of their medical information.
Detectors Flat panel detectors Flat panel detectors (FPDs) are the most common kind of direct digital detectors.
Unlike other workflow processing environments, Pipeline does not require new tools and services to include or be built against the core Pipeline libraries.
Group analyses CONN supports statistical inferences of functional connectivity properties of a population from the observed properties of individual subjects in a smaller sample using a multivariate General Linear Model framework and Likelihood-ratio test statistics.
CONN is available as an SPM toolbox, as well as precompiled binaries for MacOS/Windows/Linux environments, and it is freely available for non-commercial use.
Commercial availability Dedicated acquisition for creating parametric maps is available on some scanners by GE and Philips, under the brand names MAGiC and SyntAc.
Other localization methods also exist that do not make use of tomographic images produced by CT, MRI, or PET, but instead conventional radiographs.
Commemorating his contribution as the conference founder, beginning with IPMI 1987 the Francois Erbsmann prize is awarded by the IPMI board each conference to one young investigator for outstanding contribution to the field.
Antonio Martos Calvo, together with Jorge Candia and Jorge Olivetti through the request of neurosurgeon Jorge Schvarc (1942–2019), developed an equipment based on the principle of Hitchcock Stereotactic System.
Differences in activity can be represented as a 'glass brain', a representation of three outline views of the brain as if it were transparent.
Under the terms of the agreement, Northwell Health agreed to pay $12.3 million to resolve allegations that it had improperly billed Medicare and Medicaid for procedures in which required teaching physician presence standards may not have been met.
Functional connectivity software is used to study functional properties of the connectome using functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) data in the resting state and during tasks.
The system is used for prostatectomies, and increasingly for cardiac valve repair, and for renal and gynecologic surgical procedures.
Availability The software for VistA Imaging has been made available through the Freedom of Information Act so that it is in the public domain.
In 2024, a new algorithm implemented with Lead-DBS was used to personalize DBS treatment in Parkinson's disease.
They are designed to be models for the wider expansion of the WHITIA network throughout the clinics in need in urban and rural Guatemala.
Radiotherapy objects In addition to DICOM RT Structure Sets, for a VNA to be usable in an enterprise that performs Radiotherapy, the entire family of DICOM RT objects for beam, ion and brachytherapy need to be stored and regurgitated.
At the 2009 Annual Conference of the Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine (SIIM) in Charlotte, North Carolina, WHITIA announced its partnership with SIIM, which will allow both organizations to collaborate on specific initiatives.
The 3D position of each transmitter is measured by the IR camera, using the same principle as in satellite navigation.
It is guided towards tumor processes, using the skeletal structures as a reference system (Stereotactic Radiosurgery System).
Processes engaged to warp an individual anatomical scan to standard space are then applied also to the functional scan, improving the transformation process.
Free registration and binary installation are available without a cost, but a license key (text file) is necessary to run the FreeSurfer binaries.
Research in China has shown that users may have different privacy norms compared to Western populations, with factors such as age, education level, and medical background influencing acceptance of data sharing.
The system is used for surgical procedures including prostatectomies, cardiac valve repair and renal and gynecologic interventions.
A given set of images that might comply with some optional parts of the standards might still not be accepted by an application in use by a particular radiologist.
The Vattikuti Foundation is a philanthropic organization located in Michigan, founded by the Vattikuti's.
In this context, a joint production agreement of this system has been signed with the Russian Central Research and Development Institute of Robotics and Cybernetic Technologies.
Principles and Practice of Stereotactic Radiosurgery, Lawrence Chin, MD and William Regine, MD, Editors (2008)
The Sofie robot improves upon the design of the previous generation of surgical robots by adding force feedback to the surgeon's controls, restoring the use of tactile senses that surgeons learn to use in their training.
Image-guided surgery has been applied to procedures involving on multiple organs such as the brain, spine, pelvis/hip, knee, lung, breast, liver, and prostate.
Sponsorship IHE is sponsored by the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS), the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA), and the American College of Cardiology (ACC).
CARET (Computerized Anatomical Reconstruction Toolkit) is a software application for the structural and functional analysis of the cerebral and cerebellar cortex.
The IEEE 11073 service-oriented device connectivity (SDC) family of standards defines a communication protocol for point-of-care (PoC) medical devices.
The inaugural CyberKnife system was installed at Stanford University in 1991, receiving clearance for clinical investigation by the U.S.
Further, the paper associated with each presentation is assigned a study-group of attendees in advance rendering a portion of the community prepared to provide real time peer discussion in high technical detail.
The AIR (Automated Image Registration) is a program suite for volume-based image registration constructed by Roger P.
The MPRAD TSPM Entropy exhibited significant difference between infarcted tissue and potential tissue-at-risk: (6.6±0.5 vs 8.4±0.3, p=0.01).
DevSpecs describe the way the devices are modelled in the network representation and define requirements for the interaction of provider and consumer via SDC, if necessary.
Surgical planning and surgical simulation An osteotomy is a surgical intervention that consists of cutting through bone and repositioning the resulting fragments in the correct anatomical place.
New medical images, which are not used during training, can be mapped to an atlas, which has been tailored to the specific application, such as segmentation and group analysis.
SLA prints require hands-on post-processing steps (washing, drying, curing, and possibly removing support material) that are not needed with other methods.
The first large-scale MR-imaging microRNA-mRNA correlative study in GBM was published by Zinn et al.
The Manager requests the Agent through this service to create a scanner object itself, and to fix the scanner object on one or more values.
Unfortunately, functional MRI data at the time of AFNI's development was too low resolution for effective transformations.
AFNI is an agglomeration of programs that can be used interactively or flexibly assembled for batch processing using shell script.
As of 2013, the FDA was investigating problems with the da Vinci robot, including deaths during surgeries that used the device; a number of related lawsuits were also underway.
People can log into this secure website to view and have the option to download their health information, so they can examine it, check it, and share it with their doctors and others as they see fit.
The FMRIB Software Library, abbreviated FSL, is a software library containing image analysis and statistical tools for functional, structural and diffusion MRI brain imaging data.
References Marmulla R, Niederdellmann H: Surgical Planning of Computer Assisted Repositioning Osteotomies, Plast Reconstr Surg 104 (4): 938-944, 1999
The Australian National University (ANU) Physics Department, along with the author of the software, has used it for (amongst other things) the analysis of immiscible flow in massive 3D systems.
A C-GET, on the other hand, performs the C-STORE operations on the same connection as the request, and hence does not require that the "server" know the "client" TCP/IP address and port.
To see an NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research funded clearinghouse of many of these software applications, as well as hardware, etc.
Other neuroimaging programs like Caret, AFNI/SUMA, MNE, and 3D Slicer can also import data processed by FreeSurfer.
Photopolymers are sensitive to ultraviolet light, so the resin is photochemically solidified and forms a single layer of the desired 3D object.
These points determine the spatial orientation of the tomographic image plane relative to the stereotactic frame.
It is being actively developed by Thermo Fisher Scientific in collaboration with the Zuse Institute Berlin (ZIB), and commercially distributed by Thermo Fisher Scientific — together with its sister software Avizo.
Remote surgery is remote work for surgeons, where the physical distance between the surgeon and the patient is less relevant.
It is designed to improve the DICOM flows in hospitals and to support research about the automated analysis of medical images.
WHITIA was formerly known as the World Health Imaging Alliance (WHIA) until it formally expanded its scope in June 2009.
Cheddar TV posted a video on 7 July 2017 showing the 2010 footage, with the onscreen caption "they did surgery on a grape".
Commercial advantages and exploitation Another advantage to the design of Sofie is that its construction is cheaper than that of the previous generation of robot.
The end-effectors interface with surgical tools which are based on standard neurosurgical instruments.
Some of the standard architectural pieces involved include: Data transmission is the physical transfer of data through a communication channel, such as wires, wireless technologies or physical media.
Jack-knife analysis consists in repeating a test as many times as studies have been included, discarding one different study each time, i.e.
Ravi Kumar, the director of the Institute of Cardiovascular Disease and head of the Robotic Surgery Centre at Chettinad.
Whereas the same second order multiparametric radiomic features (TSPM) were significantly different for the DWI dataset.
Computer-assisted oral and maxillofacial surgery Bone segment navigation is the modern surgical approach in orthognathic surgery (correction of the anomalies of the jaws and skull), in temporo-mandibular joint (TMJ) surgery, or in the reconstruction of the mid-face and orbit.
Teleradiology is also employed to provide off-hour or overflow coverage for healthcare institutions lacking continuous on-site radiology staffing.
Combination with other pre-processing technique, such as green channel filtering, greatly improves the accuracy of detection of blood vessel abnormalities.
Until 2017, the software had already been used for generating more than 5000 rapid prototyping models of anatomical structures at Promed project.
Limitations For now, remote surgery is not a widespread technology in part because it does not have sponsorship by the governments.
Frederic Moll, who had also co-founded Intuitive Surgical, manufacturer of the Da Vinci Surgical System, whose use has propelled medicinal robotics to the forefront of patient care.
Two years later, in 1998, it carried out its first tubal re-anastomosis procedure, and its first coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) procedure.
Due to its nature of binding the other SDC standards together, it is often referred to as "SDC GLUE".
IHE was established in 1998 by a consortium of radiologists and information technology (IT) experts.
For example, brain atlases often use the external auditory meatus, the inferior orbital ridges, the median point of the maxilla between the incisive teeth.
A model for cross-enterprise document sharing called XDS allows hospitals to share electronic records that use the Health Level 7 (HL7) standards and LOINC codes.
DICOM describes many different "Information Object Definitions" and "SOP Classes" for storage of images with specific metadata related to particular modalities and applications, and the list of these grows as technology evolves.
These recommendations are intended to encourage the responsible use of data in the business sector, with a focus on data processing.
57,541 copies of the FreeSurfer software package have been registered for use as of April 2022 and it is a core tool in the processing pipelines of the Human Connectome Project, the UK Biobank, the Adolescent Brain Cognitive Development Study, and the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.
The term “stereolithography” (Greek: stereo-solid and lithography) was coined in 1984 by Chuck Hull when he filed his patent for the process.
The criteria for the optimal position of the bone segment are: symmetry with the opposite side, the continuity of the normal bone contours, or the normal volume of an anatomical region (such as the Orbit.
Developed since 2001 for attending Brazilian Public Hospitals demands, InVesalius development was directed for promoting social inclusion of individuals with severe facial deformities.
The word Studierfenster is an adaption from the word Studierstube ('study room'), which was an augmented reality project at the Vienna University of Technology in Austria.
The Domain Information Model defines the capability description of the medical devices as well as the representation of the current state.
A high-density line-scan solid state detector is composed of a photostimulable barium fluorobromide doped with europium (BaFBr:Eu) or caesium bromide (CsBr) phosphor.
Examples Some very simple examples of URL syntax and meta data encoding are described in the DICOMweb Cheatsheet.
It is also useful in pre-planning and guiding the correct anatomical position of displaced bone fragments in fractures, allowing a good fixation by osteosynthesis, especially for malrotated bones.
HipNav was the first computer-assisted surgery system developed to guide the surgeon during total hip replacement surgery.
Die Technologie stammt aus der Filmbranche, wo sie unter anderem digital animierte Figuren realitätsnah in von Menschen dargestellte Filmszenen integriert – beispielsweise „Gollum“ in „Herr der Ringe“.
Modality performed procedure step A complementary service to modality worklist, this enables the modality to send a report about a performed examination including data about the images acquired, beginning time, end time, and duration of a study, dose delivered, etc.
Menon's proposal, submitted by Henry Ford Hospital, was to establish an institute to develop techniques for minimally invasive surgery for prostate cancer.
A rather large full-width at half-maximum (FWHM) of 20mm is used to account for different sources of spatial error, e.g.
This object contains patient related data and can be set in relationship to an MDS object or one of the objects from the archive package, to give anonymous data the reference to patient data.
Automatic segmentation ITK-SNAP provides automatic functionality segmentation using the level-set method.
Analysis After the selection of features that are important for our task it is crucial to analyze the chosen data.
Currently, the PoCSpec project develops DevSpecs for High-Frequency Surgical Equipment (IEEE P11073-10721), endoscopic camera and light source (IEEE P11073-10722 and -10723), insufflator (IEEE P11073-10724), and medical suction and irrigation pump (IEEE P11073-10725).
The more complete HED (gen-3) conceptual framework makes possible the development of syntax to build and to compute on detailed event annotations for complex experiences (of speech, music, video, and in virtual-reality (VR) and/or augmented-reality (AR), etc.).
The phrase and imagery went viral, with other social media users, and some brand accounts, expanding on the meme's format.
Scott Kelso: Neural field dynamics on the folded three-dimensional cortical sheet and its forward EEG and MEG.
Meanwhile, it has CE mark approval for facilitating the navigation of ablation catheters within the atria of the heart during complex arrhythmia procedures such as Atrial Fibrillation (AF).
Aus konventionellen 2-D-CT- oder MRT-DICOM-Daten errechnet die Cinematic-Rendering-Software dreidimensionale Strukturen.
The master The master, or control console, is a workstation from which the surgeon controls the robotic arms and surgical tools.
Cross-fertilization between imaging and modelling goes beyond interpretation of measurements in a way consistent with physiology.
For instance, the half-life of radioactive fluorine-18 (18F) used to trace glucose metabolism (using fluorodeoxyglucose, FDG) is only two hours.
They can be presented as a table, displaying coordinates that show the most significant differences in activity between tasks.
Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) is a non-profit organization based in the US state of Illinois.
The main conference includes invited presentations, panel discussions, and podium and poster presentations of original research papers which are published by Springer Nature as conference proceedings.
AIJ reads and write FITS files, generates master frames, and handles dark, bias, and flat-field subtraction all within the software.
Design The software was designed to be accessible to users without programming experience, with the possibility of using high-level functions to run entire preprocessing or analysis routines.
Although there is no notion yet of what a Sofie-like robot would cost in a commercial offering, it is already clear that the design allows for a robot that costs substantially less than the €1,000,000 average of the da Vinci Surgical System.
With shared-control systems, the surgeon carries out the procedure with the use of a robot that offers steady-hand manipulations of the instrument.
Through the use of GPU-based volume rendering techniques it allows high frame rates on standard graphics hardware to support interactive volume exploration.
A study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) found that side effects and blood loss in robotically performed hysterectomies are no better than those performed by traditional surgery, despite the significantly greater cost of the system.
After one or two hours, the patient is placed into the PET–CT device, usually lying in a supine position with the arms resting at the sides, or brought together above the head, depending on the main region of interest (ROI).
TLS/SSLv3 authenticates clients to prove the identities of parties engaged in secure communication, as well as authenticates servers.
This makes it possible to segment structures that appear somewhat homogeneous in medical images using very little human interaction.
The software has been used in a prospective clinical trial which showed that subthalamic stimulation settings in patients with Parkinson's disease which were generated with Lead-DBS were non-inferior to standard of care treatment.
Close collaboration between MDA's robotic engineers and University of Calgary physicians, nurses, and scientists contributed to the design and development of NeuroArm.
De-identification of DICOM De-identification of DICOM refers to the process of removing or anonymizing personal health information (PHI) from medical images to protect patient privacy.
Although acquired at approximately the same time, up to several seconds could separate the first slice acquired from the last.
However, they mainly restrict the IEEE 11073 SDC Core standards to enable safe and interoperable medical device systems and to facilitate the approval process.
It may be particularly useful in settings where demand for human expertise exceeds supply, or where data is too complex to be efficiently interpreted by human readers.
To insure optimal repositioning of the bony structures by osteotomy, the intervention can be planned in advance and simulated.
Intracardiac echocardiography has also demonstrated that greater catheter stability is achieved with robotic compared to manual catheter delivery.
As open surgical procedures that require large incisions have given way to minimally invasive surgeries in which the surgeon gains access to the target organs through small incisions using specialized surgical tools.
Promoting Interoperability: The initiative, originally established under the HITECH Act, has evolved into the "Promoting Interoperability" program managed by CMS.
Following extensive clinical research, the FDA granted approval for the treatment of intracranial tumors in 1999 and for tumors throughout the body in 2001.
This method uses a randomized acquisition that creates a unique response depending on T1-T2-PD values of a voxel.
Thirdly, there should be a thorough disclosure of the model's architecture and its development process to allow for a clear interpretation of the model's intended purpose, comparison with analogous models, and to enable exact replication.
Karp, it became clear that developing algorithms to solve groups of important computational problems had limitations as well as potential opportunities.
The console was designed to be a separate module from the slave, which allows it to be placed at some distance from the surgical table; this means that personnel working at the table will not be hampered in their movement by a large control console in the vicinity of the table.
The first PET–CT prototype for clinical evaluation was funded by the NCI and installed at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center in 1998.
This system correlates three different coordinate sets: CT data set, surface laser scan data set and the dataset produced by a small guiding transmitter, placed on the patient's head.
A Windows version – ported by Scion Corporation (now defunct), so-called Scion Image for Windows – was also developed.
The primary deep neural network architectures used to remove limited-bandwidth artifacts have been WGAN-GP and modified U-net.
However, there were only a few examples of AI being used directly in clinical practice during the pandemic itself.
Further development of this code continues in the form of Image SXM, a variant tailored for physical research of scanning microscope images.
Script editor The script editor in Fiji supports rapid prototyping of scripts and ImageJ plugins, making Fiji a powerful tool to develop new image processing algorithms and explore new image processing techniques with ImageJ.
The implementation of the MDIB (Medical Device Information Base) and their functionality is out of the scope of the standard.
One of the new features, introduced to avoid positive and negative findings in the same voxel as seen in previous methods, was the representation of both positive differences and negative differences in the same map, thus obtaining a signed differential map (SDM).
Since the number of light paths in this technique is nearly unlimited, a finite randomized selection of the paths and importance sampling are used to imitate the real-life propagation of light, scattering, and reflection using models build on real-life data.
..." Binder, Johannes S.; Scholz, Michael; Ellmann, Stepan; Uder, Michael; Grützmann, Robert; Weber, Georg F.; Krautz, Christian (2020-06-02).
Markerless patient registration Anatomical landmarks The first attempts, based on the identification of anatomical landmarks were made by Caversaccio and Zulliger.
Subsequently, Accuray has introduced seven CyberKnife System models, including the CyberKnife G3 System (2005), CyberKnife G4 System (2007), CyberKnife VSI System (2009), CyberKnife M6 System (2012), and CyberKnife S7 System (2020).
The headframe is relatively uncomfortable to wear, and very difficult or even impossible to use on small children, who can be uncooperative during medical procedures.
"Ten years of medical imaging standardization and prototypical implementation: the DICOM standard and the OFFIS DICOM toolkit (DCMTK)".
History The Information Processing in Medical Imaging conference – IPMI - was first organized by Francois Erbsmann and collaborators in Brussels in 1969.
Common medical device information service element Services for the data exchange of MMOs (Managed Medical Objects) between Agent-Manager systems, are defined in this module.
Large companies The following are examples of large companies that are contributing to AI algorithms for use in healthcare: Intel's venture capital arm Intel Capital invested in 2016 in the startup Lumiata, which uses AI to identify at-risk patients and develop care options.
DICOM has been constantly updated and extended since 1993, with the intent that changes are backward compatible, except in rare cases where the earlier specification was incorrect or ambiguous.
The phosphor detector records the X-ray energy during exposure and is scanned by a laser diode to excite the stored energy which is released and read out by a digital image capture array of a CCD.
The rapid growth in multi-modal diagnostic imaging data routinely available has increased their workload tremendously.
Pre-processing of studies After conversion of statistical parametric maps and peak coordinates to Talairach space, an SDM map is created for each study within a specific gray or white matter template.
Planning and registration Concerning an optimized positioning of robotic components and patient in relation to workspace accessibility, research is done within the MiroSurge system concerning pre-operative planning as well as intra-operative registration.
Thus, fragments can be very accurately positioned into the target position, predetermined by surgical simulation.
Features ImageJ can display, edit, analyze, process, save, and print 8-bit color and grayscale, 16-bit integer, and 32-bit floating point images.
A long running Aunt Minnie PACS Forum thread digressed to discuss the issue of neutral archives amongst a broader audience after a response from Michael Gray.
Notability and impact According to Husch and colleagues, Lead-DBS is 'arguably the most established toolbox providing a semi-automatic framework for electrode localization' and Milchenko and colleagues described the tool as 'widely used'.
In 2019, scientists at Rice University published an article in the journal Science, presenting soft hydrogel materials for stereolithography used in biological research applications.
In the late 1970s, seeking to promote Harry's Bar & American Grill in Century City, California, bar owners Jerry Magnin and Larry Mindel consulted advertising executive Paul Keye, who suggested the contest to capitalize on Hemingway's literary references to "Harry's".
The participating broadcaster representing the country, the Spanish International Network (SIN), selected its entry through a national televised competition.
Editorial Cartooning – similar to postermaking, the event involves sketching a cartoon that emphasizes a certain theme.
The competition encouraged, challenged and rewarded children to write and illustrate their own picture books.
Commended plays: Time Shall Be No More by Linus Donnelly, The Countless Hours by Frederick Glover, First Fruits by Arthur Moorhead, The Dark Soldier by Betty Roland.
Those clearing stage 1 are also invited in order to prepare them for next IPO.\ - Was paused in 2008, but has now been resumed.
That year he also started his own record label "Mamoku" and later also founded his own recording company called "Sitting Duck".
Rules The 5 Basic Rules of Script Frenzy are as follows: To be crowned an official Script Frenzy winner, you must write a script (or multiple scripts) of at least 100 total pages and verify this tally on ScriptFrenzy.org.
According to the book 2015 Songwriter's Market, the purpose of the contest includes helping songwriters develop their craft, market their songs and learn about songwriting opportunities It judges works from songwriters and lyricists, performance and production quality is not weighted.
To ensure that there was no vote switching, before the voting segment began each participating broadcaster announced to its national audience the vote of its jury in local opt-out from its studios.
The winner was the song "Hierba mala" performed by Hermanas Chirino representing the United States; with "Con una canción" by José Vega representing Puerto Rico placing second; and "Mi vida" by Natalia Sosa representing Mexico placing third.
Career 1950–1960 In 1950, Cantoral formed the Hermanos Cantoral (English: Cantoral Brothers) with Antonio Cantoral.
The event was initially scheduled for 19–20 November 1999 in Veracruz, but it had to be suspended due to the severe flooding that occurred in early October in the country, which devastated the city.
In order to spur creativity and work outside of ruts, fawmers periodically create new "genres” or songwriting games and challenges, such as: 10x10 - A medley of short songs, canonically ten 10-second songs shared as a single track (c.f., the Beatles Abbey Road).
The planned contest would be produced by the same producers of other Eurovision spin-offs, including the American Song Contest.
The Portuguese participating broadcaster was Radiotelevisão Portuguesa (RTP), which was member of the Organização da Televisão Ibero-americana (OTI).
Chile was represented at the OTI Festival 1988 with the song "Es mi libertad", written by Loreto Valenzuela Baudrand and Alfredo Sauvalle, and performed by Cecilia Castro.
Festival overview The festival was held on Saturday 12 November 1977, beginning at 24:00 CET (23:00 UTC).
The forums were available from the beginning of October, when signups for the year began, until late September the following year, when they were archived and the database was wiped in preparation for that year's NaNoWriMo forums to start up again.
The contest is open to the public and held on the last day of the Festival, usually Sunday afternoon, in Jackson Square.
Group A members were schools with over 3,000 population; Group B members had populations ranging from 1,500 to below 3,000; while Group C members had below 1,500 population.
The event was cancelled due to a continued decline in participants and, likewise, a continued decline in donations.
A&U (originally, Art & Understanding) was established in 1991 as a response to the ongoing loss of members of the creative community due to HIV/AIDS and as a forum for documenting their work.
Biography Nelson Ned d'Ávila Pinto was born in 1947 in Ubá, Minas Gerais, the eldest of seven siblings.
Aruban pre-selection The Aruban pre-selection was held on Saturday 2 October 1982 at the Aruba Palmbeach Hotel in Palm Beach, to select seven songs for the national final from among fifteen candidates.
These words can either be a complete novel of 50,000 words, or the first 50,000 words of a novel to be completed later.
In a limited number of words, children are asked to write essays explaining why their mother deserves a diamond.
His first taste of success was with the song "Frente a una copa de vino" (In front of a glass of wine), a ballad classic that became his biggest and only major hit in Latin America.
The next school year, 1993–1994, elementary schools were included in the convention, causing the word "secondary" to be dropped and the convention to be called the "National Schools Press Conference".
Frank Murphy (2017), "International Philosophy Olympiad: A Writing Challenge for Young Philosophers.
Legacy There have been posthumous compilations and a re-edition of her songs sung by famous artists like Merche Corisco, Miguel Bosé, Ana Belén, Manolo Tena, and Julio Iglesias in 1996.
The following November, Baty expected similar numbers, but 5,000 writers registered, which he credits to the program being promoted by bloggers and news organizations such as the Los Angeles Times and the Washington Post.
In 1977, "Landó" by Cecilia Bracamonte managed to place sixth and turned into a hit in the South American country.
A scholars conference is held every year, and an academic journal, The Tennessee Williams Annual Review, is associated with this conference.
Subsequent years saw the introduction of other tools and activities, including video tutorials and dedicated apps.
Her first single as "Cecilia" featured the song "Reuníos" asking The Beatles to get back together as a group.
It carried a first prize of $20,000, which included publication of the winning piece in The Economist’s annual flagship publication, “The World In”.
Death Nelson Ned died at age 66 from pneumonia and cardiac arrest at Hospital Regional de Cotia, in São Paulo on 5 January 2014.
For the shorter formats, participants were allowed to submit several scripts to make up the 100-page total.
Detailed voting results For the first time, each participating broadcaster appointed a juror, and all jurors were present in the hall.
The show was opened with Efrem Benita, who had won the national final the previous year, guest performing the national anthem, and Jeanice Tromp the festival theme song "Cantante canta".
The Netherlands Antilles was represented at the OTI Festival 1983 with the song "En cada nota cantará tu voz", written by Ricardo del Carmen González and Claudius Philips, and performed by Philips himself.
The festival is dedicated to American playwright Tennessee Williams, who lived and worked in the city, and later won the Pulitzer Prize.
During this year, the conference was held for a longer time, enabling the delegates to take part in longer educational tours of the host locality.
Previously, This Is Our Time, a song that won the adult contemporary category became the official graduation song for UCLA Extension and was the debut single for the 2014 winner of Ottawa Idol, Bernice Reyes It was used in the films, like A Sunday Horse.
National stage Televisa held a national competition with four televised qualifying rounds and a final to select its entry for the 5th edition of the OTI Festival.
In 1992, the festival reached a record of 25 participating countries, which made the 1992 festival the biggest song contest in the world, even beating the 23 participants of the Eurovision Song Contest 1992.
The festival in New Orleans is not related to the Mississippi Delta Tennessee Williams Festival in Clarksdale, Mississippi, which is held annually in October in the childhood hometown of Tennessee Williams.
The United States was represented at the OTI Festival 1985 with the song "Te canto de mi raza", written by Frank López Varona and María Teresa López and performed by themselves as Zobeida and Frank.
The OTI members, public or private broadcasters from Spain and twenty Spanish and Portuguese speaking countries of Ibero-America signed up for the festival.
It was presented by Juan Guillermo Vivado and broadcast on TVN's Canal 7, UCTV's Canal 13, UTV's Canal 9, and UCVTV's Canal 5.
Both state financed and private broadcasters from member countries of the Organization of Ibero-American States (OEI) were able to join OTI as full members.
Héctor Galaz performed "Ganas de gritar" in position 11 in the semi-final, qualifying for the final.
Victoria López-Muñoz de Arce (born 26 August 1962), known professionally as Vicky Larraz, is a Spanish singer-songwriter and television presenter.
The 2008 winner received $250, while the 2014 winners' page said the grand prize winner received "about $150".
based nonprofit organization that founded the project closed in 2025 due to scandals and financial issues, but the event lives on through community-led initiatives and alternative platforms like NaNo 2.0.
Voting Each participating broadcaster, or group of broadcasters that jointly participated representing a country, appointed a juror who secretly scored each entry in a scale of 5–1 points, except for the entry representing its own country.
Relaunch In November 2009, PBS secured its partnership with WNED-TV to launch the competition in the same format as in prior years but with the new name as PBS Kids Go!
Estonia In Estonia, the selection process, which was initiated by philosopher Leo Luks, consists of two stages.
The OTI members, public or private broadcasters from Spain, Portugal, and nineteen Spanish and Portuguese speaking countries of Ibero-America signed up for the festival.
Reception This edition of the festival not only broke the record of participating countries with twenty-one, but also reached a record of potential viewers with a striking viewing figures of three hundred million, one hundred million more than the previous edition.
However, for the best possible experience, the staff does recommend that a new novel is begun for the challenge.
The contest accepts submissions on various topics, such as Economy, International Relations, Culture, Traditions, History, Tourism, CICA, KazAid, IT and Digital Transformation, AI, Cryptocurrency and Modern Society.
The Netherlands Antillean participating broadcaster, Antilliaanse Televisie Maatschappij (ATM), selected its entry through a televised national final.
The cabins were now made by making groups on the site, each with its own message board visible only by members of that cabin.
Since then, Telenica and Televicentro took part in the competition until the last show in 2000, in which Lya Barrioz turned into the very last Nicaraguan entrant in the event.
Watson earned a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration from Indiana University Southeast and is a gemologist from the Gemological Institute of America.
Created by producer/presenter Kevin Hough, it was run by national broadcaster RTÉ 2fm from 1982 to 2017.
The song, that was performed in position 4, placed fifth out of 22 competing entries, tying with the song from Uruguay with 14 points.
Franklin Granadillo won the award for best arranger, Roberto Montiel for best conductor, and Jeanice Tromp for most popular singer.
Return attempts As the mark of the OTI Festival in Latin America is still big, some organisations of diverse nature have tried to revive the festival.
Started in 1977 as a "promotional gag", and held for nearly thirty years, the contest pays mock homage to Ernest Hemingway by encouraging authors to submit a 'really good page of really bad Hemingway' in a Hemingway-esque style.
If a tie persisted after this second round, the entries with the highest number of votes would be declared joint winners ex aequo.
The tradition continued year after year, as the number of member-schools increased, with different parts of Luzon as venues.
Afterwards, 2 students per section (A and B) for each region qualify for the national phase, which is held on-site (but a student can also participate online if they have some complications that occurs) and has got the same structure as the former phases.
She also wrote several songs for other Spanish artists such as Julio Iglesias, Massiel, Simone or Mocedades.
His historical fiction writings featured such diverse topics as witches, pirates and the Spanish Inquisition.
After twelve years without publishing an entirely original proposal, Monroig announced the release of a new production in October 2008.
Functional used laptops were donated by NaNoWriMo participants, and borrowers were required to send a $300 deposit with proof of identity and cover the cost of return shipping.
Despite the shocking and unexpected last place of Mexico, partly due to the scandal that the victory of José María Napoleón in the national selection provoked, his song "Hombre" became a hit and launched his career, and he is now considered a superstar.
Viewers in the theater and at home were shown the results using a projector-board installed in the hall.
The winner was "Te canto de mi raza", written by Frank López Varona and María Teresa López and performed by themselves as Zobeida and Frank; with "Regálame un minuto" representing KMEX-TV–Los Angeles, written by Bob Cisneros and performed by Memo Valdés, placing second.
The Tennessee Williams & New Orleans Literary Festival is an annual five-day literary festival in the city of New Orleans.
When group members inquired about the guidelines, he established the project's basic ground rules: the novel must be new, cannot be co-authored, and must be submitted in time to be verified by the November 30 deadline.
Camp NaNoWriMo participants could choose their word count goal, similar to the Young Writers Program.
Evangelina Sobredo Galanes, known as Cecilia, (11 October 1948 – 2 August 1976) was a Spanish singer-songwriter.
Although only 97 participants had signed up before the beginning of the month, over 140 participants had joined by the end.
From the countries that participated in the previous edition only Colombia, the Netherlands Antilles, and Uruguay were absent.
Format Children who are in grades K through 3 within the viewing areas of participate local stations can submit their entries to their local stations.
Students will take part at the IPO selection where all the IPO rules and regulations are respected: essay-writing, bi-lingual dictionary, timing, evaluation criteria, languages, etc.
The criteria are the same as in the IPO: relevance to the topic, philosophical understanding of the topic, coherence, power of argumentation, originality.
The competition was for the best plays dealing with the Australian life or an Australian character and was organized by the Jubilee Federal Arts Sub-Committee.
The production was intended as an homage, and is composed of twenty-seven songs originally sung by Gilberto Monroig, released in a two disk set.
Fifty percent of net proceeds from 2004 to 2006 were used to build libraries in Southeast Asia; three were built in Cambodia, seven in Laos, and seven in Vietnam.
On December 19th, 2024, Playback reported that the CSSC would relaunch with its 6th Edition with Writer's Block Crystal Awards being awarded at the 78th Yorkton Film Festival in May 2024.
Track list: "El juego de la vida", "Doña Estefaldina", "Lady in the limousine", "Tocan a muerto", "Nana del prisionero", "Perdimos algo", "El Testamento", "Como puede vivir", "Sister of the sand", "Quiero vivir palabras", "Soldadito de plomo", "Between the blinds".
Rice of the English Department at San Jose State University and was named for English novelist and playwright Edward George Bulwer-Lytton, author of the much-quoted first line "It was a dark and stormy night".
Other important songwriting competitions are the Unisong International Song Contest in Los Angeles or the International Songwriting Competition in Nashville.
Personal life Luisito Rey's reputation as a solid artist and able manager was greatly tarnished by the revelations of many of his acquaintances.
Slothcore - Ambient music at a very slow tempo; fawmers have created and released several compliations of slothcore music, with proceeds going to sloth conservation efforts.
On 19 November 2002, Arjona released his ninth studio album, Santo Pecado, preceded by singles "El Problema", which reached No.
He is the author of Moon Over Mountains- The Search for Mom, The Legend of Why Mom Deserves a Diamond, Tales of Imagination- Everything is Real, In Search of Mom- Journey of an Adoptee, and Adopted Like Me- Chosen to Search for a Birthmother.
Besides this, there is the “New Concept” writing competition, which offers younger writers a more commercialized route to fame and literary success.
Principal sponsors of the Festival include the Louisiana Endowment for the Humanities, the Historic New Orleans Collection, the National Endowment for the Arts, and the University of New Orleans.
Participants from more than 3,000 schools collaborated to write and publish over one million books as part of the program's activities.
presidencies for FAWM 2006 (for a total of 42, saving the then-current President Bush for a later collaboration).
Lune Spark takes on the cost of collaborative editing and proofreading the anthologies, while the individual authors retain the copyright to their own stories.
The final winning parody was entitled "Da Movable Code." Hemingway's spare writing style had often been imitated prior to the contest.
Although the festival was not a competition between broadcasters of participating countries, the competition was held in the Mexican city of Puerto Peñasco.
The individual competitions were open to all members, while the group competitions were held according to category.
It was enormously popular there thanks to the "National OTI Festival", which was the multi-stage national competition organized by Televisa to select its entry for the international contest.
Early years In 1995, the first competition was launched by the creators of Reading Rainbow children television program.
Lesson plans and writing ideas were also offered as resources to teachers, while students could communicate through the program's forums.
She tried to launch her career as 'Eva' but that name was already registered and in use by another Madrilenian artist.
San Antonio pre-selection On Wednesday 17 July 1985, KWEX-TV held a televised pre-selection at the Lila Cockrell Theatre in San Antonio, beginning at 20:00 CDT (01:00+1 UTC).
Three performing artists had represented the same country previously: Ced Ride had represented the Netherlands Antilles in 1977, Marco de Brix had represented Paraguay in 1983, and Paulette had represented Panama in 1986.
Jeanice Tromp won the Voz supreme female award with "Amor sin contratos" and Olivia Murray won the Voz di oro female award with "Sólo una vez".
Origin Tennessee Williams was not native to New Orleans, but he lived in New Orleans's French Quarter at several points in his adult life.
The selection process, which was organized by Kedar Soni, was in two stages: Abhinav Philosopher - objective and subjective tasks online to primarily gauge students logical and verbal reasoning.
It was organised by the Organización de Televisión Iberoamericana (OTI) and host broadcaster Televisa.
The Office of Letters and Light In September 2006, NaNoWriMo officially became a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization operating under the name "The Office of Letters and Light".
Festival overview The festival consisted of a semi-final on Friday 19 May and a final on Saturday 20 May 2000.
At the end, only the top five places were announced, and the Netherlands Antillean entry was one of them.
After all the competing entries were performed, a tribute was paid to the choir Vivons en Chantant, which celebrated its silver jubilee.
Due to expressed interest from songwriters who stumbled upon the original blog, the challenge was opened up to the public in February 2005 at FAWM.ORG, where the challenge has remained since.
The 2FM Song Contest, known for sponsorship reasons as The Jacobs/2FM Song Contest or 2fm/Perri Song Contest was an annual song writing competition for young people in Ireland.
The National Schools Press Conference (NSPC) is the highest competition for journalism for both private and public elementary and secondary schools in the Philippines as per Republic Act 7079, also known as the Campus Journalism Act of 1991.
Due to the moving history that the lyrics told, the singer and the author are widely remembered in Nicaragua.
From then on, its trajectory was lustreless as happened with most of the Central American countries with the exception of Nicaragua.
In fact, ISC introduced an “Unsigned Only” category to provide unsigned songwriters a level playing field within its own contest.
Past and Present judges include: Unsigned Only Unsigned Only is a sister competition and category to the International Songwriting Competition (ISC), launched in 2012 by the same team that founded ISC.
It consisted of a semi-final on 19 May and a final on 20 May 2000, held at the Salón Teotihuacán of the Centro de Convenciones in Acapulco, Mexico, and presented by Emmanuel, Andrea Legarreta, Bárbara Ferré, Gabriela Spanic, and Nora Salinas.
National stage Televisión Nacional de Chile (TVN), Corporación de Televisión de la Universidad Católica de Chile (UCTV), and Corporación de Televisión de la Universidad de Chile (UTV), held a national final jointly to select their entry for the 17th edition of the OTI Festival.
The Mexican participating broadcaster, Televisa, selected its entry through a national televised competition with several phases.
and sister Linda were in constant contact with the world of music and were influenced at an early age by their famous father, the renowned singer of boleros, Gilberto Monroig.
The outcome of the revolution was a violent civil war which caused a human and economical catastrophe in the country, which prevented the broadcaster from submitting his candidacy.
Winners The following is a list of first place winners to date: Only two competitors have won more than once: Paul O'Brian, winning in 2002 and 2004, and Steph Cherrywell, winning in 2015 and 2019.
Early life Díaz was born in Panama City, Panama to Puerto Rican parents "Nacho" Diaz and his wife "Panchi", Díaz grew up in Miami, Florida.
The winner was the song "Quincho Barrilete" performed by Eduardo "Guayo" González representing Nicaragua.
The same year, he recorded his first album: "Del arco iris, una canción" ("A Song from the Rainbow").
Murphy met with APA executive director, David Schrader, and told him about the curriculum for a course 'A History of Western Philosophy' taught in Spanish for American high school students in their last two years before university.
Qualification and Tournaments In most schools, students who want to join the Power of the Pen team participate in one or more tryout sessions, in which they are given a prompt that they must base an essay or short story within 40 minutes.
This national final was seen as a platform for young Nicaraguan talents who wanted to be recognised in Latin America.
Writers Contest in 2009 as a continuation from its predecessor called Reading Rainbow Young Writers and Illustrators Contest which was started in 1995.
It is organized under the auspices of the International Federation of Philosophical Societies (FISP) and supported by UNESCO.
The Netherlands Antilles was represented at the OTI Festival 1985 with the song "Adiós, mi amor", written by Erroll Colina, and performed by Melania van der Veen.
Sixteen songs would be selected for the televised final, seven each from Aruba and Curaçao, and one each from Bonaire and the Dutch Windward Islands.
Track list: "Andar", "Me quedaré soltera", "Si no fuera porque...", "Con los ojos en paz", "Canción de amor", "Un millón de sueños", "Cuando yo era pequeña", "Me iré de aquí", "Mi ciudad", "Equilibrista".
The contest was discontinued in 2025 by a retired Scott Rice, citing the increasing burden of running it at an older age.
The makers of Fellers argued that their film had been given enough prints under the judging system to warrant the second prize of £2,500 and threatened to sue, but the government did not change its mind.
The jury consisted of Magda Laclé-Figaroa, Lila Kock-Richardson, Hilda Wijnaar, Boei Heronimo, Rubén Geerman, Ricardo del Carmen González, and Gemma Orman, who was assistant to jury chairman Rufo Odor.
Track list: "Mi querida España", "Decir adiós", "Sevilla", "La primera comunión", "Nuestro cuarto", "Esta tierra", "Mi pobre piano", "Un ramito de violetas", "Don Roque", "Tu retrato".
2021: Blanco y Negro tour In September 2021, Arjona announced a 25-date North America tour, named Blanco y Negro.
The Poetry Cove: In 2021 The Poetry Cove community launched an initiative to promote the project with its large online poetry community, posting daily prompts and encouraging different discussions and support around NaPoWriMo as well as raising awareness across the internet.
Overview of Awards Notes References Further reading Jonas Pfister, "Les Olympiades de philosophie dans l'enseignement" (2009), Diotime.
Criteria Writers and Poets from anywhere in the world writing in Galician or Spanish are eligible to submit their work to the contest.
The show also featured another winning song performed by its original performer: "El fandango aquí" by Eugenia León (Mexico 1985); and other performances by Charlie Zaa, Marco Antonio Solís, Hernaldo Zúñiga, Francisco Céspedes, and Emmanuel.
The hosts presented Raúl Velasco with an honorary plaque awarded by the OTI for his contributions to the OTI Festival throughout its history.
Following is a list of past venues of the NSPC: As per Joyce Andaya, DepEd Director, Cagayan Valley, particularly Tuguegarao will host the 99th anniversary of Campus Journalism in the Philippines.
Column Writing – participants craft opinion columns that offer insightful commentary on pressing issues, blending personal voice with factual support to persuade and inform readers.
The word count goal for a young writer can range from a few thousand words, to the adult-standard 50,000, and even higher in some cases; a typical standard was around 30,000.
Each participating broadcaster had also a delegate present in the hall to stand in for its jury if it was not receiving the event live, or in case of communication failure during the broadcast or voting.
The challenge runs from 12:00:01am on June 1 until 11:59:59 on June 30, both according to the local time of participants, and any genre and any language are accepted.
The first Spanish language rap song In 1983, Monroig recorded "No Finjas", the first Spanish language rap song.
The countries voted in order of participation, but due to a communication problem with the spokespersons of Honduras, Ecuador, and Venezuela, these had to be left for the end, with Venezuela ending up unable to respond and having to also use the stand-in delegate.
Televisa, in agreement with the OTI, decided to postpone the event to May 2000, relocating it to Acapulco.
With Lunna, Monroig recorded "A Todo Dar" (Everything Goes), the "first" digitally produced album in Puerto Rico.
He found that his birth mother's maiden name was Stewart, and also discovered her parents' address and telephone number.
National final ATM held the national final on Saturday 16 October 1982, beginning at 18:00 AST (22:00 UTC), at its studios in Oranjestad.
Personal life He had a long romance with Camille Carrion and became a second father to Carrion's daughter, Paloma Suau.
Hit songwriters who have participated in this event include Jeff Silbar ("Wind Beneath My Wings"), Kim Williams ("Three Wooden Crosses"), and Pam Sheyne ("Genie in a Bottle").
At the OTI Festival On 30 October 1976, the OTI Festival was held at the Teatro Juan Ruiz de Alarcón of the Centro de Convenciones in Acapulco, hosted by Televisa, and broadcast live throughout Ibero-America.
References External links 1986 International Imitation Hemingway Award Winner "The Snooze of Kilimanjaro", Mark Silber.
The top three, depending on the region, who will win for each category in each language medium are then qualified for the Regional Schools Press Conference (RSPC).
No precautions were taken to prevent cheating; since the reward for winning was the finished novel itself and the satisfaction of having written it, there was little incentive to cheat.
Aruban pre-selection The Aruban pre-selection was held on Sunday 9 July 1978, beginning at 20:00 AST (00:00+1 UTC), at the Rembrandt Room of the Sheraton Hotel in Palm Beach, to select ten songs for the national final from among twenty-four candidates.
The stage was divided in two parts, the orchestral one and the central one, where the competing singers and bands gave their performances.
Another notable collaboration is the song "Walkthrough" by fawmers Debs and Errol written during FAWM 2009 and released on their 2012 album Songs in the Key of Geek.
Songwriting competitions, such as the 2FM Song Contest for song-writers aged under 21, are often called "career-boosts".
Although Baty was happy with the large turnout and popularity of the event, he and the organization were not prepared to manage that many participants.
Competition Students competing in the Olympiad are given four hours to write a philosophical essay on one of four topics given.
The winners were announced at the Yorkton Film Festival on May 25th, 2025, with the Best of Fest prize going to Michael Young for The Sound of Trees.
This challenge is hosted by Kiwi Writers, a New Zealand-based writing group which housed members primarily based in New Zealand and Australia but stretched as far as the United States and Canada.
Winners Source 1998-2007: References Notes Citations Bibliography, Richard Wilbur Series Award books in chronological order Daseler, Robert (November 1, 1998).
On May, Arjona released the music video for "Mi Novia Se Me Está Poniendo Vieja." However, "Te Quiero" was released as third single in July 2012, and it became the second song off the album to top the Latin Songs chart.
Initially, Televisión Española (TVE) had internally selected the song "Buenas noches, papá", written by Luis Gómez-Escolar and Honorio Herrero, and performed by Carmen Pascual, as its entry representing Spain.
Si El Norte Fuera El Sur received multiple Platinum certifications in the United States and Argentina.
The festival continued and grew in popularity until a brief hiatus in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
A noteworthy example is a three-way collaboration between Jefferson Pitcher, Christian Kiefer, and Matthew Gerken (of the band Nice Monster), who each wrote songs about 14 U.S.
In the first stage, every bundesland (state) sends the best two or three participants of the Landeswettbewerb to the philosophical akademie.
The competition encouraged Australian playwriting at a time when few Australian plays were presented on stage and were thus generally unprofitable for playwrights, with The Bulletin lamenting that "the nation's literary energy...has gone where it can find a market: into the novel and short story".
Since then, it has been cancelled due to the questioning of the voting system of the latter festivals, the lack of sponsors, the low quality of the entries, and the withdrawal of some prominent countries.
Eighteen songs were selected for the televised final, seven each from Aruba and Curaçao, and two each from Bonaire and the Dutch Windward Islands.
A year later, the group classifications were again reorganized, placing schools with over 2,000 population in Group A, those with 1,000 to 2,000 population in Group B, and those with less than 1,000 in Group C.
The topic of the first literary panel was “New Orleans As A Home For Writers" and Panelists included Fredrick Barton, Christopher Blake, Sheila Bosworth, Everette Maddox, and Christ Wiltz.
This first edition marked the first time in history that broadcasters from so many countries linked together via satellite to participate in a song contest.
The festival was broadcast live on TeleAruba,, and on delay at 19:30 AST (23:30 UTC) on TeleCuraçao.
Song competitions can also be used to generate discussion and raise awareness of important social and political issues such as the Change the World With Your Song Song Competition in which contestants write about a number of themes based around important social and political issues.
In 12 July 2022, the EBU announced its expansion of the Eurovision Song Contest brand to Latin America.
Two performing artists had previously represented the same country in previous editions: Félix López had represented El Salvador in 1974, and Ricardo Padilla had represented Costa Rica in 1980.
Chile demanded a compensation of $300,000 if the Soviets did not appear, claiming that they could not place the tickets for sale and the cost of preparing the game.
These include: Community and Political Dialogue, Women's Leadership, Peace Education and Young Adults, Peace IV: Addressing the Legacy of Violence Through Facilitated Dialogue, Southern Voice for Peace, Intercultural and Refugee, and International.
The British government used concentration camps during the 1952–1960 Mau Mau Uprising in British Kenya.
This killing, however, was not part of a feud but instead carried out as a form of internal discipline from within the Mid-Ulster Brigade.
The White Paper, based on 19 captured guerrilla documents, was accepted as fact by the American press, with myriad U.S.
D'Albert-Lake weighed only 35 kilograms (77 lb) compared to her pre-war weight of 57 kilograms (126 lb).
This law had a complement in the Law of Due Obedience, passed in 1987, which exempted subordinates from prosecution when they were carrying out orders.
One theory suggested the location was chosen to symbolically link the killing to the funeral of RUC officer Darren Bradshaw, who had been killed by the INLA and was buried in nearby Antrim that day.
The colonial administration also interned at least 80,000 Kenyans suspected of being affiliated with the KFLA in detention camps, with some estimates of the number of detainees being as high as 320,000 people.
The partition also highlighted the problems relating to partitioning archives relating to the independent countries arising from the partition, for example with the feeling that "Pakistan was created with a deficit not only in funds, armies, bureaucracies, but also in history".
Due to "association with the communist totalitarian regime", the Kyiv City Council on 7 July 2016 voted 87 to 10 in favor of supporting renaming Moscow Avenue to Stepan Bandera Avenue.
The author's reliance on anecdote and questionable sources make it unsuitable as an introductory work.
History One of the tactics of the dictatorship was to isolate the public from international news and outside influences in order to maintain its stranglehold on information.
An investigation of the Special Jurisdiction for Peace found that from 2002 to 2008, 6402 civilians were killed by the Government of Colombia, falsely claimed to be FARC rebels by the Military Forces of Colombia.
In 1698, John Dunton wrote a mocking account of Ireland, titled Teague Land – or A Ramble with the Wild Irish.
Influence on US interrogation methods The Court's ruling that the five techniques did not amount to torture was later internally cited by the United States to justify its own interrogation methods, which included the five techniques.
Links to Jihadist Networks: In the late 1990s, Borlakov established contacts with Khattab, an Arab militant leader fighting in Chechnya, and Bagautdin Dagestani, a leader of Dagestan's Wahhabi militants.
The National Council of the Algerian Revolution (CNRA; French: Conseil national de la Révolution algérienne) was created during the Soummam conference of the FLN.
1972–1974 From its beginnings the UDA was wracked by internal problems and in 1972, the movement's first full year of existence, three members, Ingram Beckett, John Brown and Ernest Elliott were killed by other UDA members.
Return, interim governor, second exile He returned to Buenos Aires in 1819, following the departure of Pueyrredón.
It produced a constitution which was approved in a 1980 plebiscite that had significant allegations of fraud.
The car bomb led to Qatar's first anti-terrorism law, declaring lethal terrorist acts punishable by death or life imprisonment.
Instead of existential testimony – smooth language, like from a sample of the Soviet children's prose.
History In her speech on May 21, 2007, before the full Congress, President Michelle Bachelet announced the construction of a memorial museum, and a month later she announced a public competition to select an architectural design for it.
Appointed in 1984 to investigate claims of a RUC "shoot-to-kill" policy, former Deputy Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police, John Stalker, said that he "had never experienced...such an influence over an entire police force by one small section" in regard to Special Branch.
2.4 Fiscal and monetary policy The monetary policy should ensure proper currency liquidity, which is conducive to commodity transactions, and have stabilizing prices, full employment, and maintaining high economic growth as its aims.
He died in July 2009 at the Kahrizak detention center following his arrest in connection with protests of the 2009 presidential election in Iran.
Revelations according to Gana While in hiding, Gana granted audience to Charles Eruka, a reporter with Channels TV, and also wrote a letter to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC).
The CNRA moved to "unravel the essential devices of the Congress of the Soummam" by adopting a new resolution stipulating that all participants in the liberation struggle, with or without uniform, were equal.
Searching around the house, Letona encounters the two Kaqchikel children's spirits who calmly take him away.
In Pattani Province, police radio said Pattani's provincial capital fell dark after a bomb knocked out a power station.
Shlaudeman expressed concern that the "siege mentality" that permeated the members of Operation Condor could lead to a larger chasm between the military and civilian institutions in the region.
Many of them were veterans of the Soviet–Afghan War and prior to the Russian invasion, they used their expertise to train Chechen fighters.
Emad Baghi, a prominent human rights activist and journalist, and head of the Society for the Defense of the Rights of the Imprisoned.
Although charged with multiple crimes related to the massacre, Al-Gashey and his surviving compatriots never stood trial.
In September 1991, NCChP squads seized the local KGB headquarters, and took over the building of the Supreme Soviet.
This caused Prasat Thong to gather an army of 30,000 men and more than 60,000 from various cities on 11 May 1634, with the Dutch promising to send warships to support him.
They will be allowed to receive at least one visit and a food parcel each week and to spend their own money in the prison canteen.
Morteza Haji, a former government minister and a Khatami aide, as well as Haji's deputy Reza Rasouli.
Meanwhile, in El Salvador, commissions for a peace dialogue were trying to find a peaceful solution to the conflict.
Columnist Richard Cohen wrote in an op-ed that the attacks would harm the Israeli–Palestinian peace process.
According to a document leaked from the Public Records Office of Northern Ireland in 2021, on 9 June the RUC requested heavy equipment to government agencies in order to remove roadblocks and barricades set up by potential rioters.
Some researchers allege that bin Laden funded the Luxor massacre, the killing of 62 civilians at the Mortuary Temple of Hatshepsut in Egypt in November 1997.
The massacre was fictionalised in the novel Something of Value by Robert Ruark, and in the 1957 film version.
The authorities captured and tried 14 suspects for Waruhiu's murder, the majority affiliated in some way with Mau Mau.
Manhunt and amnesty First amnesty Gana lived in the jungle cohabiting with wild animals until Monday, 31 August 2015 when he first appeared in public to embrace the amnesty granted by Samuel Ortom, Governor of Benue State for criminals in the state.
Some agricultural workers found them and notified the police, who then took them to a public hospital.
After he led the 1973 Chilean coup d'etat, his Junta government confiscated and often destroyed literature considered subversive as a policy.
They had 11 children: Gertrude, Mary, Joyce, William, Henry, Pamela, Betty, John, Irene, Anna, and Geoffrey, who went on to become an internationally renowned musician.
The President of Chechnya, and former rebel, Ramzan Kadyrov declared this phase to end in March 2009.
Between 9,000 and 12,000 people, mostly civilians, were killed between 1989 and 1998 in the operation.
The ship's bell is now located at Maidstone Grammar School, where it is rung to signify the start of assembly.
See also Cairde na hÉireann, pro-SF marching bands References Bibliography External links West of Scotland Band Alliance website
The Mansión Seré (also known as Quinta de Seré and Atila) was a clandestine detention center (CCD) run by the Argentine Air Force during the self-styled National Reorganization Process (1976–1983).
The ideology found institutional expression primarily through the UDI, which maintained loyalty to Pinochet's legacy while participating in democratic politics.
In 1995, 1996, and 1997, there were several weeks of prolonged rioting throughout Northern Ireland over the impasse at Drumcree.
On 24 October 2020, Onifade travelled to Abule Egba in Lagos State to cover the #ENDSARS protest for Gboah TV.
7 May 1974: killing of Catholic civilians James and Gertrude Devlin, who were shot dead near their home at Congo Road, near Dungannon, County Tyrone.
The judiciary uses the old criminal procedure system originated in 1906 for these cases, without the guarantees introduced with the reform carried out between 2000 and 2005.
He played a central role when Max Manus escaped from custody at Ullevål Hospital in February 1941, by smuggling in the fishline which was used to pull up the rope used for descending, and organize car transport for the escape.
Subsequently, with the 11 September 1973 Chilean coup and the overthrow and death of Allende Chile entered a period of severe military repression in which members of the former Allende government and its supporters were deemed enemies of the state.
In 2012, Pakistan released an intelligence report that detailed bin Laden's movements while hiding in the country, based on interrogation of his three surviving wives.
The performer then asked the audience, "Who here knows what a Kabyle smile is?" One spectator replied, "That's not good." == References ==
They were initially built as temporary structures, but due to their effectiveness they have become wider, longer, more numerous and more permanent.
The children, portrayed as victims rather than villains, begin to torment and torture insects, graduating to small animals, influenced by the selfish acts of their parents.
1970s – 8 September 2020) also known as Gana (sometimes spelt Ghana) was a most wanted criminal and head of a militia in Benue State, Nigeria, whose activities peaked between 2015 and 2020.
Among others, he was a member during the brief existence of the group Skylark A, established by the Secret Intelligence Service in September 1940.
September 10, 2002 - Administrative head of the Nadterechny District, Akhmad Zavgayev (brother of Doku Zavgayev), was killed as unknown gunmen opened fire his car in his home village of Beno-Yurt, several kilometers away from Chechnya's border with North Ossetia.
The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the infamous battle that took place on 21 April on Victoria Road in Glasgow when republicans were marching in support of the blanket protest in Long Kesh.
The Council of Europe in multiple resolutions and statements between 2003 and 2007 called on Russia (a member of the Council) to cease human rights violations.
Back home, Næss obtained photographs and details about the camps, and combined this information with his own memories to produce an album of 39 watercolor images over the course of two years.
She was given extensive medical treatment in Chile and in Canada, but still bears disfiguring scars as a result of her burns.
It originated in the mid-19th century as a focus for Slovak nationalist aspirations to break away from the Kingdom of Hungary but its bid for independence was suppressed.
Consequently, there was to be no primacy of the political over the military nor a distinction between inside (Algeria) and outside (external FLN structures).
In February 1977, Oryema, together with Archbishop Janani Luwum and Interior Minister Charles Oboth Ofumbi, were assassinated by Amin's security forces.
On 4 February, the prisoners issued a statement saying that the British government had failed to resolve the crisis and declared their intention of "hunger striking once more".
In popular culture The saga of the students' ordeal was depicted in Hector Olivera's 1986 film Night of the Pencils.
At the final minutes of regulation, a defiant Gaetjens kept on the offense, breaking the tie at 3–4, which ended up being the game-winner.
The IRA had monthly operating costs of £400 a month, so this was a major financial blow to the organization.
Hodges of Florida State University, reviewing the book in Political Science Quarterly, claims that Lewis holds a bias against the guerrillas.
This was the term for handling World War II prisoners according to a decree promulgated by Himmler on 7 December 1941.
The attacks were reported to have killed hundreds of civilians and forced at least 100,000 Chechens to flee their homes.
20 July – A policeman was killed and another seriously wounded when a police checkpoint in Narathiwat’s Bacho district was attacked with pipe bombs.
According to Goodin, the perceived threat of terrorism can be more harmful than the actual level of terrorism, provided that the individual is not directly impacted by terror attacks.
The predictability of the overarching direction means the slow-burn pacing can drag, and the horror elements are very minimal.
1982 and 1984 inquiries A "private inquiry" was set up in January 1982 by James Prior, the Northern Ireland Secretary, under the Commissioner of Complaints, Stephen McGonagle, to deal with these allegations.
It welcomed the continued commitment of the Salvadoran government and people to national reconciliation and stabilisation of political life in the country.
He was taken to the Convent of Saint Dominic in Santa Fe, where they remain today, next to the bodies of his son Patricio and several other important leaders.
The Morice Line was a defensive line which went into effect in September 1957 during the Algerian War.
The official military version reported that the convoy had been attacked on the road, and that at least five of the prisoners had died in the shooting that followed, while the rest had fled.
Security forces arrived on the scene and opened fire, resulting in a massacre as they indiscriminately killed demonstrators and bystanders alike.
After taking a bicycle from one of his victims, he methodically rode to houses occupied by Russians, called out their inhabitants, and shot them.
In a press conference given by the three surviving militants in Tripoli shortly after their release from Germany, Adnan Al-Gashey was asked by a British journalist if he, personally, shot the Israelis.
The unit is overseen by Saud al-Qahtani, the former General Supervisor of the Center for Studies and Media Affairs, with its commanding officer being Maj.
Some of the other works in the park include: Memoria espacial by Per Kirkeby, La casa de la historia by Marjetica Potrc, Figuras caminando by Magdalena Abakanowicz by Leo Vinci, and Por gracia recibida by Carlos Distéfano.
Means of struggle In accordance with revolutionary principles and taking into account internal and external situations, the continuation of the struggle by all means until the goal of independence is achieved.
On 1 August 2005, the Northern Ireland Office announced that the Diplock courts were to be phased out, and in August 2006 they announced that the courts were to be abolished effective July 2007.
On 6 December 1985, a carabinero (Patricio Rodriguez Núñez) was shot to death by four guerrillas who opened fire on him with submachine-guns as he walked home.
The Civic-Military Directory, led by Colonel Julio Adalberto Rivera, established the military-backed National Conciliation Party (PCN).
During the 1916 Easter Rising, Vladimir Lenin spoke of it positively calling it a decisive "blow against the power of English imperialism".
Other groups BRN-Congress or BRN-K (BRN-Kongres), led by Rosa Burako, has been pursuing a military struggle but is currently less active.
On 28 October 1971, a confrontation had taken place between British and Irish troops at a cross-border bridge between the Republic and Northern Ireland, at the village of Munnelly, between counties Fermanagh and Monaghan.
The Caso Degollados ('Slit-Throat Case') was a politically motivated series of murders of opposition members that took place in Chile in 1985, during Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship.
It called for the establishment of autonomy for the Slovak people within the Kingdom of Hungary and promoted a document known as the Demands of the Slovak Nation.
While still a student, he was also active in the Norwegian resistance movement during World War II and was imprisoned as a Nacht und Nebel inmate.
Other members of the Stalker/Sampson inquiry team also stated in June 1990 that "the Greater Manchester officers wish to stress that the Stalker/Sampson Enquiry found no evidence of a 'Shoot to Kill policy'".
After Akhmad Kadyrov's death, he came into conflict with his son Ramzan Kadyrov and was declared an outlaw.
Tubman, Frank began to become prominent: when Tubman ran for president in 1943, he was rumoured to be Tubman's first choice for vice president, although his younger brother William was eventually chosen, perhaps because of Frank's unpredictable moods and violent temper.
While CIA's complicity was not proven, American dollars supported the regimes that carried out extrajudicial killings such as the Pinochet administration.
On the other hand, it was clear that the FMLN would never be able to defeat the army in open combat, and that civilians were not willing to join their ranks in an all-out assault.
On 15 June, Belgian national television reporter Jef Lambrecht from the Flemish public television broadcaster VRT and his sound technician, Vandervorst, were arrested in Tehran.
There were clashes between nationalists and the RUC on English Street; two youths were injured by plastic bullets.
We are all doing the one bloody job", but he eventually ordered his men to surrender their weapons after Irish Army soldiers surrounded both cars and aimed rifles at them.
47th Regiment was ordered to capture a hill the army couldn't, but they didn't even have bayonets since they wore their traditional clothes.
The electricity supply was also cut; in addition to its other consequences, the loss of electricity further crippled the Chechen administration's ability to compete in the information war.
They told the government in no uncertain terms they are still there and not going away," said an Iranian analyst who witnessed the protests.
First Slovak National Council (1848–49) The SNR was first established during the revolutions of 1848 in the Habsburg areas, when Ľudovít Štúr, Jozef Miloslav Hurban and Michal Miloslav Hodža founded it in Vienna on 15 September 1848 during the Revolutions of 1848.
Jorge Fuentes Alarcón, co-founder of MIR, jefe Regional MIR en Norte de Chile, died under torture 1974.
According to the prosecutors, in an interview with Ingushetia businessman Musa Keligov hosted on the site, Keligov directly accused Zyazikov of connections with guerillas.
The ramped path is meant to form a giant "wound" in the lawn of the park leading toward the river, where the name of those killed or vanished are located.
Installation of the regime On 11 September 1973, the day of the coup, the military officers issued an Act of Constitution.
These stories familiarize the reader with life during the wars and are an artistic reflection of what Zherebtsova saw and experienced in the Chechen Republic.
In relation to the missing documentation: the exact documentation (Departmental, Garda intelligence and any other documentation of relevance) that is unaccounted for; the reasons explaining why the documentation went missing; whether the missing documentation can now be located.
Álvaro Corbalán, who headed the operational arm of the CNI, received an order from the then-director of the institution, General Hugo Salas Wenzel, for personnel from all the brigades under his command to act, with support from the Army's Anti-Terrorist Unit and Investigations officials.
At some point in late September, a large group of detainees which included the students was herded into two police vans.
The lawyer Jaime Guzmán, once a student of Eyzaguirre, helped establishing the Francoist-influenced Guildist Movement at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile in the 1960s.
Background Army General Augusto Pinochet and leaders of the Air Force, Navy, and police force took power on 11 September 1973, in a coup d'état that deposed the democratically elected Socialist President Salvador Allende.
This neat division between loyalists and Mau Mau was a product of the conflict, rather than a cause or catalyst of it, with the violence becoming less ambiguous over time, in a similar manner to other situations.
The day has been held annually since 2007 on 21 June, the summer solstice; it was chosen for this date as the solstice was deemed an opportunity for looking both forward and back.
See also Disappearance of Azory Gwanda References External links Onifade Emmanuel Pelumi at Committee to Protect Journalists
Background The Act was passed following the election to the Westminster Parliament of an Irish Republican Army hunger-striker, Bobby Sands, in the April 1981 Fermanagh and South Tyrone by-election, while he was serving a long term of imprisonment.
These efforts eventually led to the Trial of the Juntas and the imprisonment of key people involved in the dictatorship.
Villages that were suspected of harboring GAM operatives were burnt down and family members of suspected militants were kidnapped and tortured.
This practice was also applied by the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) during the Algerian Civil War in the 1990s.
The red silk moiré ribbon was 36mm wide with a 14mm central light blue stripe and two 5mm wide white stripes each 1mm from the edge.
She wanted to become a plastic surgeon but could not keep up with the 90-hour week, so she left school.
The attacks on Sunday and early Monday targeted mostly residential and business establishments owned by Buddhists or ethnic Chinese.
The later threat was taken "very seriously" by Gardaí commander Pat Byrne, who put on alert all security checkpoints along the border.
There he built the Quinta Seré, where he dedicated himself to the breeding of polo horses and livestock.
In response to the Ashura protests, pro-government protesters hold a rally in a "show of force" three days later on 30 December (9 Dey in the Persian calendar) to condemn Green Movement protesters.
1988–1990, the FLN has been in favor of multi-party democracy, whereas it upheld itself as the only organization representing the Algerian people before this period.
The convoy crossed the River Bann and passed Toome RUC station at 11:41:06 pm, approximately five miles from the abduction site.
According to the French Kaskaskia records, the Duff name was recorded as, "Jean Michel Duff" and "John Michael Duff." In 1786, John, Daniel, and another son of Thomas McElduff sold land tracts for two different property deeds.
According to Luis Narváez, a reporter investigating Chile's arms dealing and Pinochet's offshore bank accounts for La Nación, there was a persistent rumor among Chileans that the explosion was the result of sabotage, possibly committed by Chilean soldiers.
Brazil April 1991: José Vicente Anunciação murdered a co-worker during a drunken knife-fight in Salvador, Bahia.
A section 6(7) offence has a maximum punishment of six months imprisonment or level five on the standard scale.
The Pheu Thai Party called for a government investigation to establish if there were irregularities at the court.
Baptised by the Rev Willian Knapp (a Baptist minister born in Connecticut) in 1913, Waruhiu was a devout Christian (for instance refusing to eat meat slaughtered in accordance with Kikuyu custom) and became increasingly prominent in his locality.
This letter also placed intelligence chiefs from Argentina, Bolivia and Uruguay at the meetings, additionally solidifying those countries' involvement in the formation of Operation Condor.
In January 1974, he took part in the assault on the army barracks in Azul, Buenos Aires Province, where a Lieutenant Colonel, his wife and a conscript were killed.
The Archives of Terror (Spanish: Archivos del Terror) are a collection of documents chronicling the repression undertaken by Paraguayan dictator Alfredo Stroessner's secret police force during his rule from 1954 to 1989.
These people had not found support at Delegación de Asociaciones Israelitas Argentinas (DAIA), and the mainstream Jewish community in Argentina was remaining silent because they feared government repression.
These militias have experience in urban warfare and have been used to bolster Iranian security forces during large-scale protests.
People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran leader Maryam Rajavi said that "the Iranian nation's only possible solution to the velayat-e faqih regime is democratic changere.
As a result, he did not take part in the battles of Vilcapugio and Ayohuma, two defeats of the Army of the North, and Belgrano regretted later the absence of Dorrego from them.
Sohei Sato states that this was a nomenclature applied at a later stage in the process of the transfer or destruction of documents.
You, Me and Marley – a BBC2 Screenplay drama, written by Graham Reid and directed by Richard Spence, inspired by the killing of Peake and Reilly, and shown on 30 September 1992 (the first anniversary of their deaths).
Some £26,000 had been invested in the five barracks which, like Military Road, became wholly obsolete in 1815 when the Napoleonic Wars ended.
Ivo Protulipac (4 June 1899 – 31 January 1946) was a Croatian lawyer and Catholic activist, assassinated in 1946, reportedly by the UDBA (Yugoslav secret police).
The commission's work also enabled the identification of an additional 10,167 victims omitted by the archives.
The memoir is told from the protagonist's cell in an American prison where he's been sent to serve a lifetime sentence for his part in the shooting, and is a narrative of the author's theories about crime, love, hate, and the tyranny of families set within the Ulster Project process.
The prisoners requested showers installed in their cells, and when this request was turned down they refused to use the wash-hand basins.
The CNRA alone was empowered to take decisions on political, military, economic and social orientation.
No humanitarian mine clearance has taken place since the HALO Trust was evicted by Russia in December 1999.
See also Reform Acts Representation of the People Act References External links Gay, Oonagh (13 October 2004).
Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Commission of Investigation are: To undertake a thorough investigation and make a report on the following specific matters considered by the Government to be of significant public concern.
Immediately following the bombings, security was heightened in the surrounding areas, in Bangkok, and at airports throughout the country.
It involved the torture and execution of 22 Montoneros, some of whom were killed after surrendering and laying down their weapons near the town of Margarita Belén, Chaco Province, on 13 December 1976, in a joint operation of the Argentine Army and the Chaco Provincial Police.
Contents The manual recommended "selective use of violence for propagandistic effects" and to "neutralize" (i.e., kill) government officials.
This resulted in destroyed property and mass detentions, and took place in southeastern voivodeships of the Second Polish Republic.
Presidential pardons In 1989 and 1990, Carlos Menem signed a series of decrees pardoning civilians and military personnel convicted of crimes during the military dictatorship, which resulted in the release of more than 1,200 people.
Department of State, International Helsinki Federation for Human Rights, as well as the opposition, question the election, citing, in part, the disqualification of the major rival Malik Saidullayev on a technicality.
The Assembly was prorogued the following day, but continued to exist in abeyance until formally dissolved on 28 March 1975, via an Order in Council made under the Northern Ireland Act 1974.
This neoliberal project transformed Chile from a protected, state-directed economy to one of Latin America's most open market systems, creating what supporters termed the "Chilean Miracle" despite significant social costs and increased inequality.
The given motive for this alleged attack was to punish Cardoen for not cooperating fully with a "mafia like" syndicate of Chilean arms manufacturers, and for providing too much competition for other manufacturers such as FAMAE.
Following a night of rioting, RUC men entered the Bogside (a Catholic ghetto), wrecked a number of houses and attacked several people.
To comply with the law, he had to put up the name of the organisation responsible at the bottom of the leaflet, and, the story goes, he read through it, decided it was all about people's rights and christened us People's Democracy.
Her husband José has become involved in rebellion against the economic conditions and became a leader in the Christian farmers organization.
The author stated that she did not change the names of those killed, in order to preserve their memory.
Wolf Blitzer was incredulous that Ghadiri would so boldly offer a conspiracy theory or obvious disinformation as an explanation: BLITZER: ..You're a distinguished diplomat representing Iran.
He was convicted for possession of weapons found on his land after an RUC raid in December 1978 and received a one-year suspended sentence.
For the United States to be legally responsible, it would have to be proved that that State had effective control of the operations in the course of which the alleged violations were committed." See also The Freedom Fighter's Manual U.S.
The prisoners responded by refusing to leave their cells, and as a result the prison officers were unable to clear them.
Plot summary Guadalupe "Lupe" Guardado is a middle-aged Salvadoran woman who lives near Chalatenango, El Salvador.
In 1932 Requejo published El Cardenal Segura, the first biography of the primate; prologued by Ramiro de Maeztu, the 215-page work assumed a decisively hagiographic tone.
José Humberto Carrasco Tapia (24 August 1943 – 8 September 1986) was a Chilean journalist known for his struggle against censorship during the military dictatorship era.
The rallies were hold in response to the Ashura protests, where protesters on that day did acts including "applauding, whistling, and engaging in other cheerful displays," which was viewed as violation of a "red line" and targeting Husayn ibn Ali and Ashura commemoration itself.
When asked directly if he had killed any of the Israelis, Adnan Al-Gashey simply replied, "It's not important for me to say if I killed Israeli (sic) or not." Later life It is believed that Al-Gashey has spent the time since his release in hiding in North Africa.
Anunciação was set free and then dragged from his bed at night by a mob of forty people who beat him to death with bricks and clubs.
From the rooftops of the house, the two FPMR members responsible for covering the group responded to the police attack with their weapons.
One particular flashpoint which has caused continuous annual strife is the Garvaghy Road area in Portadown, where an Orange parade from Drumcree Church passes through a mainly nationalist estate off the Garvaghy Road.
The book is described as "shocking", "visceral", and a "critique of a society that has lost its soul".
These personnel had to be trained quickly, and this was one of the functions of the Civilian Police Division of ONUSAL, also known as CIVPOL.
Berdishewsky served as acting commander in chief of the Chilean Air Force and was a member of the ruling military junta during the absence abroad of Air Force Commander Gen.
Aftermath Chile The Chileans were drawn alongside the hosts West Germany and two first-time entrants: East Germany and Australia.
George Cross citation The announcement of the award of the George Cross was made in the London Gazette of 5 April 1949.
This is utter nonsense and a complete untruth as the constable who all right-thinking people recognize as a murderer killed himself after he committed his crimes.
The list below compiles the ministers and senior executive figures who held key posts across the period, with their terms of office presented chronologically within each portfolio.
Objectives and members Argentine Jews who joined the MJDH put themselves in danger by becoming exposed to government retaliation.
No loyalist gathering was ever directly banned under the act, although a few were caught in blanket bans against parades or meetings in a particular area.
