In 2018, Nick Lucchesi of Inverse wrote about how ProtonMail was promoting how to "be able to completely de-Google-fy your life".
History In October 2013, Snapchat first introduced the story function as a series of Snaps that can together tell a narrative through a chronological order, with each Snap being viewable by all of the poster's friends and deleted after 24 hours.
In 1980s and 1990s American politics, "Atari Democrat" referred to Democratic legislators who suggested that the support and development of high tech and related businesses would stimulate the economy and create jobs.
A movement of techno-utopianism began to flourish again in the dot-com culture of the 1990s, particularly in the West Coast of the United States, especially based around Silicon Valley.
In some, but not most cases, the ISPs provide subscriber-configurable settings to disable hijacking of NXDOMAIN responses.
Ars Electronica: Facing the Future: A Survey of Two Decades (Electronic Culture: History, Theory, and Practice).
On 5 December 2012, the United States House of Representatives passed a resolution opposing UN governance of the Internet by a rare unanimous 397–0 vote.
"What Barbrook is saying between the lines is that the people with their hands on the reins of power in all of the wired world...are guided by an utterly skewed philosophical construct." Hudson maintained that there were a multitude of different ideologies at work.
In 1976, Indonesia established the Industri Pesawat Terban Nusantara or IPTN, which is a government issued company that specializes in air and space travel.
industrial property register — an official database containing registered trade marks, as well as patented inventions, industrial designs, utility models, or integrated circuits, thus protecting and reserving the rights of the company which developed them or bought rights to them.
FragDenStaat is a Berlin and Brussels-based NGO run by the Open Knowledge Foundation Germany focused on the right to information.
TXT CSC – This is an SMS service launched by Civil Service Commission in Philippines to increase the efficiency and speed of service delivery.
Ownership Based in Stockholm, PRQ was created by Gottfrid Svartholm and Fredrik Neij, two founders of The Pirate Bay.
The first pilot projects were realized at San Ramon and San Pedro, Honduras, in cooperation with the local Ministry of Science and Technologies, following the devastation from Hurricane Mitch.
The Pirate Party of Israel or Piratim (Hebrew: הַפִּירָאטִים) is a political party in Israel founded in 2012 by past members of the Holocaust Survivors and Grown-Up Green Leaf Party and Ale Yarok to promote the values of the international Pirate Party movement.
These features include unique customization options like fonts, colors, themes, and others; 256-bit AES encryption; tagging; importing and exporting (as, for example, a PDF); rich text formatting; the ability to post by email; reminders; and numerous others.
At its 13th edition, the Infopoverty World Conference saw the participation of more than 100 international organizations, hundreds of from Governments, international and regional organizations, public and private institutions and the civil society and 63 countries.
"split-tunnel" VPNs, where traffic can still be sent over the local network interface even when the VPN is active.
"Traffy" is derived from traffic, while "fondue" is derived from the Thai "fongdu", meaning "to report".
The ACLU described the requirement for a photo ID as a "poll tax" on citizens who would be required to purchase a photo ID if they did not already have one.
National pirate parties Super-national pirate parties Sub-national and regional pirate parties Youth wings Pirate Parties of micronations and other unrecognised states == References ==
The limitation of that approach is that it only prevents hijacking on those particular domains, but it may address some VPN security issues caused by DNS hijacking.
The ideas presented are very similar with minor differences in the final definition of d {\displaystyle d} .
The Venus Project is a 501(c) nonprofit organization founded by architect and social engineer Jacque Fresco.
Policies will also only be adopted after the completion of an online seven-day voting period, where all full members may take part.
Content and appearance A live blog is a single post which is continuously updated with timestamped micro-updates which are placed above previous micro-updates.
Among oldest BytesForAll also describes itself as "being one of the oldest network on ICT4D issues in South Asia".
See also Right to repair References & 53-6-1; External links Official website "Public.Resource.Org".
It is debatable whether or not this practice is at odds with the domain registration requirement of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).
In August 2009, it was claimed that Pirate Party UK was undergoing rapid growth similar to one the Swedish Pirate Party had enjoyed in early 2009.
Using completely anonymous web browsers such as Tor Browser which not only makes user anonymous, but also doesn't require any dns to be set up on the operating system.
Although many emails are encrypted during transmission, they are frequently stored in plaintext, potentially exposing them to unauthorized access by third parties, including email service providers.
In addition, up to the COVID-19 pandemic, emissions have only increased in the transport economic sector.
In 2013, John Koetsier of Venturebeat said Amazon's Kindle Fire Android-based tablet was "a de-Google-ized version of Android".
The organization is still in process of reorganizing the Pirate Party in Turkey and getting interest of the new generation by following the agenda and participating in youth movements.
This is much riskier and prone to fluctuation than a system of trust that is based on reputation because performance does not consider past actions.
According to him, "American neo-liberalism seems to have successfully achieved the contradictory aims of reactionary modernism: economic progress and social immobility.
Online registration of companies and register is available in the center of state services Bir Darcha.
We must restrict access to our free service during peak usage times to ensure the best possible experience for paid subscribers.
T-Mobile confirmed that the data collected by the hackers included sensitive personal information, such as the first and last names, birthdates, driver's license/ID numbers, and Social Security numbers.
While governments begin pondering questions such as, "is Internet access a right?", ideas on how to approach this issue fall along political party lines.
The Golden Projects are several e-government projects carried by the Government of the People's Republic of China.
On the other hand, in Australia, Jacqui Lambie of the Jacqui Lambie Network was supportive of the COVID-19 vaccination.
After Association is successful the 4-way handshake can occur, and from then on data frames are encrypted.
Voluntary Voting System Guidelines HAVA tasks the EAC with creating and maintaining the Voluntary Voting System Guidelines (VVSG).
Approving $950 million in funding to improve, expand, and harden communications networks in Puerto Rico and the U.S.
Although free searches are offered, a message may appear: "Proxify is experiencing higher than normal traffic volume.
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ran a refugee camp in Tanzania where the Global Catalyst Foundation had placed computers and communications equipment for the use of the Burundian refugees confined there.
This way, the search engine cannot make a useful profile of any individual user in the group since it has no way to discern which query actually belonged to each user.
According to UK's DPA, the ICO, report, companies involved in RTB "were collecting and trading information such as race, sexuality, health status or political affiliation" without consent from affected users.
Both defendants were ordered to pay damages of 5,000 euros to the Brittany Water and Rivers Association and 3,000 euros to the CLCV (Consommation Logement Cadre de vie), one of the two main general consumer associations in France.
The organization's stated mission is to "lift up and amplify the voice of the American people so loudly that it cannot be ignored in the halls of power." Founded in 2024 by public opinion pollster Scott Rasmussen, the organization is named in honor of political consultant Joseph Napolitan.
to receive the chips cut from the edge of the tape." A 1938 patent filing included a "chaff or chad chute" to collect the waste fragments.
As CAE wear lab-coats and appear as professional scientists, they simulate actual biotechnology corporations, emphasizing their intentions even further.
The programmes are developed and governed by the EITCI Institute – a non-profit organization based in Brussels, that provides certification of individuals' knowledge and skills in broad field-oriented areas of ICT expertise such as Computer graphics, Information security etc.
She eventually managed to have her account reinstated; however, users with the surname Kills The Enemy are, as of 2015, still required by Facebook to spell their surname without spaces as a single word.
This feature includes the software to identify photos that users are tagged in by developing a template based on one's facial features.What is the face recognition setting on Facebook and how does it work?
The 2020s saw the increase in popularity of Russian-American channels Vlad and Niki and Like Nastya and Ukrainian-American channel Kids Diana Show who according to R.T.
The company released print media and published pieces about its commitment to developing electric and hybrid vehicle models to improve its CSR image.
Engineering company Rolls-Royce wrote to employees to say that it did not want the UK to leave the EU.
Controversy Steve Kurtz's Trial In 2004, one of its founders, Steve Kurtz, was arrested on suspicion of bioterrorism.
Contamination of surface water or ground water from leaching, runoff, and spray drift” on farms across the country.
The Do Not Track specification did not explicitly mandate that the use of Do Not Track actually be a choice until after the feature was implemented in Internet Explorer 10.
Consumers typically build a connection with the influencers they closely follow, which affects their purchasing decisions.
This number is normally formed using the patient's date of birth (as DDMMYY), followed by four digits: two digits randomly generated, the third digit identifying gender (odd for men, even for women) and a check digit (Modulus-11).
The group opposes measures in the draft Online Safety Bill introduced in 2021, that it sees as infringing free speech rights and online anonymity.
After the positive feedback over the open call of the party, the two initiated the organizing process and contacted Pirate Party of Sweden for suggestions.
This is done so that they can help spread awareness of the threats to unrestricted speech in new media.
The sessions to debate outsourcing in May 2015; the zika virus in February 2016; and labor reform in May 2017 had a considerable participation.
Usage Identity scoring can be used in a variety of ways, from identity verification and measuring fraud risk on the enterprise level, to preventing fraudulent use of identities and synthetic identity theft on the consumer level.
On a per capita basis, this is matched by current digital storage (5×1021 bytes per 7.2×109 people).
Public.Resource.Org is a United States court case concerning copyright of published building codes and fire codes and public access to the same.
Legacy In the 1970s, the poem became associated with the appropriate technology movement and the name Loving Grace Cybernetics was adopted by the hippie-hacker group operating Community Memory, the first bulletin board system based in a record store in Berkeley.
The argument with or without transparency was mentioned previously and highlights major issues such as losing governmental trust or privacy issues with accountability.
ICMS for Government Agencies All Singapore government agencies involved in criminal justice system are linked to the ICMS.
Using a community-created 3D avatar of Roy Merritt to coordinate a counterattack, the holon of Greely is able to defeat the assault force.
According to one anonymous official speaking to a Wall Street Journal reporter, first, a pre-selection is done by the telecommunication providers themselves, who select traffic (including the text of emails and the audio of telephone calls) that most likely contains foreign communications.
Privacy issues Digital footprints are not a digital identity or passport, but the content and metadata collected impacts internet privacy, trust, security, digital reputation, and recommendation.
The summit itself was marred by criticism of Tunisia for allowing attacks on journalists and human rights defenders to occur in the days leading up to the event.
In the United States of America, a vote center, sometimes known as a super precinct, is a polling place that combines multiple precincts allowing voters to choose at which location to vote regardless of their home address.
In Nepal, 10 prominent bloggers signed a Code of Ethics for Bloggers, first proposed by Ujjwal Acharya and finalized after discussion among bloggers, on July 27, 2011.
As an alternative, some legal scholars argue that soft law approaches to AI regulation are promising, as they offer greater flexibility to adapt to emerging technologies and the evolving nature of AI applications.
Berdy, Dobrochna Dyrcz-Freeman, and Marian Schwartz (Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1996) The unknown Lenin, Yale University Press, 1996, trans.
Students collectively identify a common challenge facing their community and prepare an action plan to overcome it.
For financial information, the Federal Trade Commission permits its circulation if it is de-identified and aggregated.
It did this by cross-referencing the edits with data on the owners of the associated block of IP addresses, though it did not investigate edits made under a username.
In a reverse of this idea, well-off families, especially the tech-savvy parents in Silicon Valley, carefully limit their own children's screen time.
Its interests include: Access to knowledge Copyright Creative Commons Free and open source software The public domain Crown copyright Digital Restrictions Management Software patents Free speech and censorship Internet filtering Right to parody s.
Stage theory The most widely accepted model is called "stage theory" based on the work by Richard Atkinson and Richard Shiffrin shown in figure 1.
Palak further explained that the websites had vulnerabilities that were exploited, resulting in the exposure of citizens' personal data.
All of this has led to many concerns that users are displaying far too much information on social networking sites which may have serious implications on their privacy.
Depending on the implementation of the ICMP tunneling software, this type of connection can also be categorized as an encrypted communication channel between two computers.
Similarly in Pakistan, PAK Education Society/Pakistan Development Network had taken the initiative to build Pakistan Knowledge Economy or Information Society.
While parents may assume that privacy settings may prevent children's photos and data from being exposed, they also have to trust that their followers will not be compromised.
It is estimated that, the world's technological capacity to store information grew from 2.6 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 1986, which is the informational equivalent to less than one 730-MB CD-ROM per person in 1986 (539 MB per person), to 295 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007.
More than 20% of people aged 18 to 24 use Instagram stories, while it is just under 2% of those over 55.
Under all four programs, the collection takes place in cooperation with commercial telecommunication companies, both inside and outside the US.
Legal scholars have questioned the constitutionality of the doctrine, and indicated that it has been used to silence minorities such as gay men in the past.
The event was sponsored by The National Science Foundation, Election Systems & Software, and Hewlett-Packard Company.
Technolibertarianism, sometimes referred to as cyberlibertarianism, is a political ideology with roots in the Internet's early hacker cypherpunk culture in Silicon Valley in the early 1990s and in American libertarianism.
At the time it was merged into data.europa.eu, around 70 EU institutions, bodies or departments (e.g.
It is read by campaigners, activists at the grassroots, people involved with actual projects, funders, key players in the development debate and also academics in both South and North.
History Founding In June 2012, the party issued invitations to a kickoff meeting to be held in Trondheim on the 16th, with the intention of agreeing on a strategy to obtain the 5,000 signatures required by law to register a political party.
"OWE is a means of adding encryption to open networks...OWE only protects against passive attacks." Opportunistic Wireless Encryption is a Wi-Fi Enhanced Open authentication mode, as a part of Wi-Fi Protected Access 3.
The service was launched in 2003 by Google critic Daniel Brandt, who was concerned about Google collecting personal information on its users.
Ethical Dilemmas in IT Audits The Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in IT audits is growing rapidly, with 30% of all corporate audits to be conducted using AI by 2025 as reported by the World Economic forum from 2015.
The emission model (expert version only) for the computation of overall emissions either on an aggregated spatial level for a particular area (e.g.
Authors should create the novel online through the daily posts and not simply cut and paste already written novels into blog posts.
Consequently, third-party browsers cannot use their own rendering engines and must depend on Apple's framework instead.
"A Survey of Anonymous Peer-to-Peer File-Sharing." In Proceedings of the IFIP International Symposium on Network-Centric Ubiquitous Systems (NCUS 2005), Nagasaki, Japan, volume 3823 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 744–755.
Also, at the time, most newspapers were not political neutral, with many papers being controlled by either conservative forces, the labour movement or political parties.
The opinion notes that while precedents establish that judicial opinion cannot be copyrighted, they do not exclude the notes prepared by an official court reporter published together with reported opinions from copyright protection.
The IndigoTrust funded roll-out to further countries, with a particular focus on the provision of transparency websites for sub-Saharan Africa.
Additionally, the government launched an investigation into the incident to ascertain the extent of the data exposure and identify the parties responsible for the security weaknesses.
Other countries are less available, such as Brazil, due to lack of The Crew's sales data, or the United States, which Scott wrote off as a fruitful legal or political arena for any initiative as a result of the precedent set by the court ruling ProCD, Inc.
2014 federal and regional elections In the federal election of 25 May 2014, the Pirate Party participated in the Flemish constituencies of Antwerp (0.98%), East Flanders (0.82%) and Limburg (0.71%) as well as the Walloon constituencies of Hainaut (0.80%) and Liège (0.63%).
It failed to make much impact on the US and European regulators, but may have had more influence in its later manifestations in Asia and particularly China.
Many F2F networks support indirect anonymous or pseudonymous communication between users who do not know or trust one another.
In October 2014, the FBI searched a house in Chicago, Illinois, and seized several computers, cellphones and storage drives after tracking the source of a hacking attack to an IP address linked to an individual named Emilio Herrera.
Integration could be the hardest issue to overcome since it can be argued that corporate culture must change to accommodate microblogging.
The extension became very popular with over 100,000 users by September 2014, and in the same year it was selected by the National Library of Australia to be included in its Pandora Archive.
However, it also criticised Western media reaction following the 2022 missile explosion in Poland, accusing such media of not taking the risk of a major escalation with Russia seriously enough.
Party Leaders Sources: Svein Mork Dahl (2019–present) Thomas Gramstad (2017–2019) Tale Haukbjørk Østrådal (2015–2017) Øystein Bruås Jakobsen (2013–2015) Geir Aaslid (2012–2013) Parliamentary Election results == References ==
He also said that "ultimately, the Barrington Declaration is based on principles that are dangerous to national and global public health".
Objections to the SFDIS While most will agree that the goal of easing the digital divide is a good one, many informed people have raised objections to franchise contract with EarthLink/Google.
On 23 and 24 March 2013 there was the first Occasional Assembly (Assemblea Occasionale, AO), the congress of the Pirate Party, in Milan.
can only be filed using the USPTO online Electronic System for Trademark Trials and Appeals." (Emphasis in original.) References External links Official website
Global Centre for ICT in Parliament Another outcome of the WSIS is the Global Centre for ICT in Parliament.
Reports on global connectivity emphasize the need for expanded digital infrastructure, affordable services and digital skills training that ensures the expanding Internet access benefits a broader range of population worldwide.
This means that for a user who deletes all their cookies regularly, a site using this would still be able to personalize to that specific user.
To circumvent this security barrier, the attacker can use browser-leak methods, to distinguish subtle differences between different responses.
While the project was officially launched on June 30, 2009, Brazil has been participating in the LexML community since 2006.
They said that the more likely outcome would be recurrent epidemics, as was the case with numerous infectious diseases before the advent of vaccination.
public aid register — an official register of businesses in difficulties which received aid from the state.
Although visionaries like Yuval Noah Harari do mention the possibility of a negligible senescence society Noah also remarks that he seems this is not likely to happen in the 21st century.
After FragDenStaat brought a negative declaratory action, the Berlin Court of Appeal ruled that the warning had no legal basis.
Outline In his book titled Technoliberalism, Adam Fish describes technoliberalism as a belief that networked technologies ameliorate the contradictions of a society that cherishes both the free market of economic liberalism and the social welfare of social liberalism.
IV systems can include some Voter Verified Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) systems, End-to-end auditable voting systems, witness systems, and some optical scan voting systems.
Rowling, and figures from journalism and broadcasting: Jeremy Paxman, Nick Davies, Paul McMullan, Alastair Campbell, Piers Morgan, Kelvin MacKenzie, Richard Desmond, Ian Hislop, James Harding, Alan Rusbridger, Mark Thompson, Lord Patten, Michael Grade, Lord Hunt and Paul Dacre.
Local authorities and anti-paedophilia activists in Sweden have failed to persuade PRQ to close the sites.
Crypto-anarchy, crypto-anarchism, digital anarchism, cyberanarchy, or cyberanarchism is a current of anarchism focusing on the protection of privacy, political freedom, counter-surveillance, hacktivism and economic freedom.
showed using the then-newly introduced application cache, a website could instruct the browser to disregard and override any caching directive the victim website sends.
Fitzpatrick, ISBN 1-58648-018-9, ISBN 978-1-58648-018-9 See also Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union == References ==
During the Spanish general election 2011, the Internet Party presented eight candidates in the electoral district of Cádiz and received 603 votes (0.09%).
Reset San Francisco is a Gov 2.0 website founded by Phil Ting, the assessor-recorder for the city of San Francisco.
History The Pirate Party of Slovenia and its original founder Robert Pal first appeared in the Slovenian media in 2009.
Its objective is to establish open data systems, integrate work processes and share data, in the context of identifying and structuring executive, legislative and judiciary documents.
The number of synaptic operations per second in a human brain has been estimated to lie between 1015 and 1017.
This prompted the Communications and Freedom of Expression Commission of the Senate to ask ENACOM officials for an explanation and competitor Telefónica to announce legal action for "discriminatory treatment", as it had to pay for its 4G spectrum in a 2014 auction.
The International Conference on Theory and Practice of Electronic Governance (ICEGOV) is an annual conference concerning electronic governance coordinated by the United Nations University Operating Unit on Policy-Driven Electronic Governance (UNU-EGOV).
Babbs was formerly Head of Activism at Friends of the Earth where he was responsible for the Big Ask Campaign.
However, its role has expanded over the decades and it now also provides Scottish local authorities with a Unique Citizen Reference Number or UCRN used to identify people on their own databases.
It incorporates indicators that assess the areas of universal access, freedom and openness, relevant content, and empowerment, which indicate economic, social, and political impacts of the Web.
This combination makes it possible to detect certain attacks that neither the IDS/IPS nor the stateful firewall can catch on their own.
The association organizes conferences, workshops, publishes e-books, as well as contributes to the organization of online and offline campaigns against internet censorship, mass surveillance.
There has been some research identifying this proliferation of laws and bureaucracy as partly responsible for many economic activities going 'underground'.
Process Like film or television awarding committees, blog awards are started by a certain body, usually composed of blog enthusiasts.
In 2014 only three countries (China, US, Japan) host 50% of the globally installed bandwidth potential.
Since January 2004, smartvote has been operated by Politools (Politools – Political Research Network) – a registered society based in Bern, being neutral in its politics and having no allegiance to a particular religious denomination, in the sense of Article 60 et sqq.
In the 2013 regional elections in Lazio the Party candidated Arturo Di Corinto as independent in Left Ecology Freedom, but he was not elected.
Digitalcourage – known until November 2012 as FoeBuD (German: Verein zur Förderung des öffentlichen bewegten und unbewegten Datenverkehrs) – is a German privacy and digital rights organisation.
The 33 1⁄3 phonograph record was issued by Harvest Records based on a recording Brautigan recorded at Golden State Recorders in San Francisco.
Response Huawei In 2019, Huawei gave a refund to phone owners in the Philippines who were inhibited from using services provided by Google because so few alternatives exist that the absence of the company's products made normal internet use unfeasible.
However, Iain Duncan Smith said Carney's comment should be taken with "a pinch of salt", saying "all forecasts in the end are wrong".
Political scientists Vladimír Naxera, Ondřej Stulík, and Vojtěch Kaše criticised the creation of new subdivisions of populism, including valence populism, due to the categories creating ambiguity in academic literature.
As such, Kryder's law prescribes that the amount of storage space available appears to be growing approximately exponentially.
[Hence,] we hear little about the experiences of the common soldiery." Reviews The reviews are generally mixed.
The Court finally observes that a decision allowing copyright protection for anything merely falling short of being classified as a statute or a judicial opinion would result in First Amendment concerns.
BoingBoing, one of the blogs critical of the MBA, issued a corrective stating that it was the Associated Press and the New York Times which implied that the MBA was acting on behalf of all bloggers, and not the MBA itself.
He rescues Sebeck from being killed and then uses his Darknet power to dispatch an enormous army of AutoM8s and Razorbacks to level Sky Ranch, hellbent on killing the Major.
As of 3 May 2023, the PSW has expanded its operations to encompass all dry ports across Pakistan, excluding Quetta.
These documents cover a wide range of topics such as regulation and governance, as well as industrial strategy, research, talent and infrastructure.
Such entities can still use information such as IP addresses and user accounts to uniquely identify users.
Empower Americans to draft or evaluate Unity08 candidates and actively engage them in debate about the crucial issues.
Effects In 2018, The Guardian reported on a Los Angeles summer camp called LA Star Education which taught children how to become YouTubers by making toy unboxing videos.
Audiences often trust the endorsement of influencers because, while they can be sponsored, they are loyal to their followers and have the freedom to design their messages.
See also References Further reading Jane Fountain, Building the Virtual State: Information Technology and Institutional Change (2001) Encyclopedia of Digital Government.
Launched in August 2010, the website is designed to give the residents of San Francisco Web 2.0 tools through which to engage in city issues.
For Latin America it is estimated that the borderline between ICT as a necessity good and ICT as a luxury good is roughly around the "magical number" of US$10 per person per month, or US$120 per year.
In 2019, the Pirate Party ran with its list in the European Parliament election, obtaining 0.23% of the votes.
These cultures believe that the self has become a subjective concept on the online spaces; by logging onto their profiles, users are essentially freed from the prison of a physical body and can "create a narrative of the self in virtual space that may be entirely new".
Although aging populations in population pyramids result in "constructive" pyramids which are narrowed at the bottom, this might not necessarily be the case in the aging population in a negligible senescence scenario.
In addition, by bringing together these diverse elements, NetDay establishes a framework for lasting partnerships among business, government, educational institutions, and local communities to provide ongoing support for our schools.
Near-term practical proposals closely associated with post-work theory include the implementation of a universal basic income and the reduction of the length of a working day and the number of days of a working week.
Traffy Fondue (Thai: ทราฟฟี่ฟองดูว์ ) is a digital platform developed by Thailand's National Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC), under the National Science and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA).
In January 2007, an MBA member received press credentials identical to those of broadcast and print journalists at a federal court, to cover the trial of Lewis Libby, alongside bloggers from more established sites including Firedoglake, the Huffington Post, and Daily Kos.
To ensure adoption and implementation of the framework in time bound manner the government will develop Mobile Service Delivery Gateway (MSDG) that is the core infrastructure for enabling the availability of public services in through mobile devices.
The movement emphasizes that knowledge is a shared social good that should be available to all people, regardless of geography or economic status.
These systems have greatly reduced the margin of error on audits and provide a better insight into the data being analyzed.
Stamm was, at the time, a privacy engineer at Mozilla, while Soghoian soon afterward started working at the FTC.
Emergent democracy is said to work the same way, that once people's minds are plugged into the system, collective signal triggers are revealed, resulting result to new ideas and a new way of looking at the world as these minds coalesce.
On August 16, T-Mobile publicly confirmed that the company had been subject to a data breach but declined to say whether any customers' personal information was accessed or how widespread the damage was.
Recent media attention has focused on efforts related to terrorists and their own attempts to conduct an online or electronic intifada - cyberterrorism.
One of the most well-known software applications that leverage phoning home for tracking is Absolute Software's CompuTrace.
Witnesses Oral evidence was taken at the Royal Courts of Justice, and was streamed live over the Internet.
Web scraping tools Following web scraping tools can be used as alternatives for contact scraping: UzunExt is an approach of data scraping in which string methods and crawling process are applied to extract information without using a DOM Tree .
The DNT header accepts three values: 1 in case the user does not want to be tracked (opt-out), 00 in case the user consents to be tracked (opt-in), or null (no header sent) if the user has not expressed a preference.
Proximity of a negligible senescence society The timeline wherein humanity will achieve a negligible senescence scenario is unclear.
Other theories There are many recent theories concerning information processing that differ from the stage theory model.
thereby leaving a movable, or hinged, lid of paper in the tape." In the New Hacker's Dictionary, two unattributed and likely humorous derivations for "chad" are offered, a back-formation from a personal name "Chadless" and an acronym for "Card Hole Aggregate Debris".
They also cite the Fort Laramie Treaties of 1851 and 1868, which promised the land that DAPL runs through to the Lakota's land.
Peas, beans, and vetches became common; they increased soil fertility through nitrogen fixation, allowing more livestock to be kept.
The law applies to any information generated or held by state authorities, local authorities and other entities obliged under the law.
The date originates from London, England, 17 August 1897, when a woman named Bridget Driscoll was killed by a car driver, which is considered the first recorded road traffic fatality in the world.
Since 2016, as a result of the efforts of Humane Society International Mexico and local organizations, the event no longer has this type of practices, instead featuring various sports and cultural activities.
The intention of the pure land is to assure that the individual achieves their personal goals in life—the betterment of oneself in order to reach nirvana.
Dogs in religion hold various symbolic and cultural meanings across different religions and belief systems.
International law Nationality is the status that allows a nation to grant rights to the subject and to impose obligations upon the subject.
However, in most modern countries all nationals are citizens of the state, and full citizens are always nationals of the state.
Powers The Commissioner can take a judicial review regarding the treatment of older people to court.
Support and opposition In addition to support from the American Automobile Association, Right to Repair's primary support is from the Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association, Coalition for Auto Repair Equality (CARE) and a number of state groups representing the repair industry.
Daniele Archibugi and Alice Pease, Crime and Global Justice: The Dynamics of International Punishment, Cambridge: Polity Press, 2018.
In captive environments, animals may develop stereotypic behaviors, repetitive, functionless actions such as pacing, rocking, or self-harm.
Police sent the detainees to the regional headquarters before splitting them up into about eight police stations dotted across the capital, even as colleague protesters and lawyers worked to secure bail for the illegally detained people.
It consists of individuals who have been wrongfully detained through various channels, including criminal conviction, hostage diplomacy, and kidnapping.
Australia Self-determination has become the topic of some debate in Australia in relation to Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders.
For the purpose of the criminal law, what mattered was whether Lindon believed that his actions were reasonable.
The police The Ghana Police, in an attempt to stop the demonstration from happening, filed an injunction at the Accra High Court on September 19, 2023.
For example, under a settlement of property the respondent "the son" would have been entitled to an equal portion of properties along with his other siblings which was gained in a settlement by his mother.
According to the World Health Organization, pedestrians account for 22% of all road traffic deaths worldwide.
On the opposite side, some governments links this analysis directly to prison terms, not complying to nulla poena sine lege principle.
Also, the Judge deemed that the search warrant that was used to enter Parasiris's suburban home was illegal.
Crofters had the right to be paid for land improvements, such as erecting fences and drainage A standard of reasonable rent was established and required.
In Slovenia access to public information is regulated by the Access to Public Information Act (2004), the Decree on communication and re-use of information of a public nature (2005) and the decree amending it (2007), and the Information Commissioner Act (2005).
This criterion is used in the international law justification of preemptive self-defence: self-defence without being physically attacked first (see Caroline test).
Evidence was provided to the judges through written witness statements extracted from interviews, and live questioning of witnesses, often over video call.
The principle of maximum disclosure provides for a broad definition of "public bodies" which are subject to the duty of releasing information.
Article 56 requires States to take joint and separate actions in cooperation with the UN to achieve their mutual aims.
States should cooperate with each other in ensuring development and eliminating obstacles to development.
Hirabayashi (1925) — Washington's Supreme Court decided that the land purchased in the name of a Nisei but managed primarily by an Issei-owned company must revert to the state.
Some other research has shown that during the movement, in the Vidarbha region, 14 percent of the land records are incomplete, thus prohibiting transfer to the poor.
Local residents criticized authorities for leaving Brown's body in the street for four hours in an action seen as demeaning and disrespectful.
Within the framework of the Charter of the United Nations, affirmation of Algerian sympathy towards all nations which would support the liberating action.
105) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (as it then was), authorizing the transfer of Rupert's Land from the control of the Hudson's Bay Company to the Dominion of Canada.
In 2000 the UN established the Global Compact which call on business leaders "embrace and enact' a set of 10 principles relating to human rights, labour rights, environmental protections and corruption.
A possible method of limiting a product's durability is to use inferior materials in critical areas, or suboptimal component layouts which cause excessive wear.
The OECD Guidelines cover a wide range of issues including labour and environmental standards, human rights, corruption, consumer protection, technology amongst others.
Fairphone has also received three consecutive annual Platinum ratings from EcoVadis, scoring as high as 88/100 in a rating system that covers four different categories measuring environmental and social metrics.
The witnesses included victims, family members of victims, and defected members of the regime, including the police force, the Basij and IRGC.
This often meant that tensions escalated because the international community did not fully understand the issues at play.
The Basic Principles for the Treatment of Prisoners were adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations by resolution 45/111 on 14 December 1990.
See also Mental Capacity Act 2005 Capacity in Scots law Notes References Sources Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000: A Short Guide to the Act (PDF), The Scottish Government, 1 April 2008, retrieved 29 December 2010
Legal defense for self-defense claim Son assault demesne ("his own first assault") is a form of a plea to justify an assault and battery, by which the defendant asserts that the plaintiff committed an assault upon him, and the defendant merely defended himself.
The Act was adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Government in October 2000, and the Republika Srpska Government in May 2001.
In 2005, the Information Commissioner Act established the institution of the Information Commissioner, an autonomous and independent body in charge of supervising the protection of personal data and the access to public information.
These measures differ from country to country: in Italy they are called preventive measures, which are derived from a comprehensive analysis that involves both the tendency to commit crimes and the sphere of the moral conduct of an individual.
Though no longer used to this extent, ringed seals are still an important food and clothing source for the people of Nunavut.
The animated film Free Birds centers around a turkey who was pardoned, then is recruited to go back in time to the first Thanksgiving to prevent turkeys from being associated with the holiday.
While humanitarianism on a local and national level can be traced far back in history, scholars of international politics tend to identify the advent of global humanitarian impulses to the 19th century.
Assessments * indicates "Civil liberties in country or territory" or "Human rights in country or territory" links.
Opponents Opponents of the initiative argue that it would result in cyber security risk and possibly make vehicle data more vulnerable.
The right to a healthy environment is at the core of the international approach to human rights and climate change.
At any level, student bills of rights can provide students with an understanding of their legal rights: rights pertinent to all citizens and rights specifically pertinent to students in the educational setting.
The Ukrainian government was unwilling to implement the majority of his recommendations, even though it was consistently willing to engage with the HCNM.
The High Court also inferred a limited right to vote from the text of the Constitution in Roach v Electoral Commissioner, invalidating legislation that prevented all prisoners from voting.
Nevertheless, researchers from a wide range of disciplines have continuously identified issues with how officials determine if they believe what a person claiming asylum tell about their past experiences, their identity, and relationships.
Despite the rules, organizations and demonstrators at the conference's physical site were happy to mention specific ongoing abuses all around the world, with many displaying atrocity photographs in an attempt to out-do each other.
In a case in 1989 in Illinois, a 17-year-old female Jehovah's Witness was permitted to refuse necessary life saving treatments.
Their 2024 study directly addresses animal abuse and applies the concept of "phantom pain" (drawing on Blumenberg) to understand the persistence of animal suffering within cultural traditions.
Scholars have reported how far-right critics argue that neo-Nazis joining the national-anarchist movement will lead to them losing credit for the successes of their anti-Zionist struggle if it is co-opted by anarchists.
The Nyamilu Community Water Project The Nyamilu Community Water Project began in 2005 as an Engineers Without Borders project led by both Dartmouth College and Louisiana State University.
In the months leading up to the incident, several other dogs had been killed and a tractor and horse stolen.
It is physically impossible for the human eye to focus simultaneously on the rear sight (nearest to one's eye), the front sight (farther away from one's eye), and the relatively distant target at the same time.
In 2012, the rape case of 23 year old girl sparked national and international attention to India's laws against sexual assault.
In June 2012, the Senate, led by Senator Ben Cardin, incorporated the measure into a broader bill (H.R.
(2001) National Human Rights Institutions, Articles and working papers, Input to the discussions of the establishment and development of the functions of national human rights institutions Danish Institute for Human Rights.
In earlier times before the development of national policing, an attack on the family home was effectively either an assault on the people actually inside or an indirect assault on their welfare by depriving them of shelter and/or the means of production.
Earlier mobile phones (including water-resistant ones) had back covers that could be opened by the user in order to replace the battery.
Pattanaik and Yongsheng Xu presented three conditions that a measurement of FoC should satisfy: Indifference between no-choice situations.
These initiatives contributed to the establishment in 2021 of the interdisciplinary master's program Ethology and Human–Animal Interaction, the first degree program in Romania dedicated to the field.
In the 2017 Chomutov incident, a 37-year-old man believed that a vehicular rampage is taking place in front of his home and in an effort to stop it, he shot the 34 year old driver dead.
Moreover, with the majority of those classified as agriculturists being Muslim, the educated elite saw it as being anti-Hindu, just as their diminishing ability to gain government employment, which was once their preserve, was considered to be such.
False imprisonment refers to a situation where someone is held by a government authority without legal justification, often in a government controlled setting like a police station or prison.
Gaughan states that, commonly, those who seek debarking live in apartments, or have neighbors who complain.
They have tried earnestly to meet all objections in advance and have done exceedingly well." A 1998 study by Philip Cook and Jens Ludwig replicated the Kleck and Gertz survey, but also concluded that the results of these surveys were far too high.
An early framework for the establishment of public slaughterhouses was put in place in Paris in 1810, under the reign of the Emperor Napoleon.
Other human rights frameworks, such as the Convention on the Rights of the Child refer to environmental issues as they relate to the framework's focus, in this case children's rights.
The genocidal terror campaign perpetrated by (ISIL) known as Daesh, has had a particular impact on regions with large minority populations, resulting in communities, many thousands being killed or held captive, including women and children held in sexual slavery.
A recommendation that was often raised during the regional forums and other activities, that the human rights of minorities be highlighted more frequently and that a more detailed approach be considered in their recognition and protection within the United Nations system.
It is about controlling what outsiders do once in a society: whether they work, reside, study, set up businesses, or share their lives with others.
Such conferences were seen as a way to promote global participation, consultation, and policy formation, and were seen as a likely significant new way to influence the direction of international society.
…Mere replacement of individual unpatented parts, one at a time, whether of the same part repeatedly or different parts successively, is no more than the lawful right of the owner to repair his property.
This has ensured an almost lifelong loyalty from the farmers and the communists were in power till 2011 assembly election.
In 2000, most Internet access to homes was provided using dial-up, while many businesses and schools were using broadband connections.
The court went further in saying that no statutory law could require a duty to retreat, because the right to stand one's ground is "founded on the law of nature; and is not, nor can it be, superseded by any law of society." == References ==
It is also cheaper to become a recortador than a traditional bullfighter, although prizes are also lower.
The feminine is not an absolute alterity (the alterity established by Jacques Lacan and Emmanuel Levinas) and we are offered a language to rethink the archaic mother and the source of humanized life.
Personhood In 1992, Switzerland amended its constitution to recognize animals as beings and not things.
The declaration reiterated many of the suggestions set forth by the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism.
Programs that employ the WSR model, such as the Fair Food Program (FFP) or the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh, provide low-wage workers a means for claiming, defining, and enforcing their human rights in the workplace.
As previously quoted, Bollen criticized previous studies of Freedom in the World as anecdotal and inconclusive; they raised issues needing further study by scientific methods rather than anecdotes.
See also National Public Order Intelligence Unit Notes Further reading NETCU website archived at the Internet Archive Glover, Julian; Adam, David; and Ward, David.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and introduction to rights: Rights – normative principles, variously construed as legal, social, or moral freedoms or entitlements.
Pavlov quickly abandoned attempts to infer canine mental processes; such attempts, he said, led only to disagreement and confusion.
Public institutions are obliged to report annually to Parliament, the President and the Prime Minister on their compliance with access to information law and provide updated statistics and data.
It particularly relates to offering assistance to others in an emergency or crisis and is also used to refer to the skills, knowledge and attitudes needed for individuals and communities to help themselves.
The Special Rapporteur puts forward recommendations aimed at addressing the negative consequences of plastics on human rights.
Thus, the farmer receives income not only by the selling of the milk, but also by the selling of the carcass.
Unwritten rules, also called unspoken rules, are behavioral constraints imposed in organizations or societies that are not typically voiced or written down.
Sometimes, the use and handling of a single weapon is considered a martial art, for example Japanese martial arts such as kenjutsu, kendo (sword), bojutsu (staff), and kyūdō (archery).
According to scholars, the most willingness to exploit non-human animals is found in people who express greater ethnic prejudice.
The colours in the logo are not those of the rainbow or LGBT pride flag; instead, they symbolise "race and heritage (red/black/green) and all gender identities and sexual orientations (pink/yellow/blue)".
Annual Reports The Special Rapporteur's annual reports normally include a focus on relevance for the rights of minorities, as well as a description of the activities carried out during the year in the framework of the mandate.
Hearing a child in investigations and proceedings Child victims of crime have a right to be protected from harm and secondary victimisation during investigations and proceedings.
Background It is unclear when the tradition of throwing a goat from the belfry of the Church of Saint Vincent Martyr in the town of Manganeses de la Polvorosa began.
Harvard Business Review considers it good business practice to bring unwritten rules to the surface and document them.
In 1976 Jeff Cooper founded the American Pistol Institute (API) at Gunsite Ranch just north of Paulden in Yavapai County, Arizona, to provide training in the technique to a larger audience of military personnel, law enforcement officers and citizens.
Analysis Suicide food is similar to the "absent referent" described by the American essayist Carol J.
The Schiavo case is the most recent and significant right to die case that propagates the thought of having an advance directive or living will.
Adams, which in this context represents desire to break the link between the living animal and the consumer product in order to avoid making the consumer feeling guilty for consuming their product.
History In 1979, the proposed Health Research Modernization Act established a National Center for Alternative Research.
Injury or death Within a pen, if another bird is injured or dead, the sight of this can encourage other pen members to engage in cannibalistic behaviours.
A Peruvian subsidiary of Japan's Taiyo Fisheries, known as Victoria del Mar, operated three coastal whaling ships (Victoria 1, 2, and 7) with a shore station in Paita.
Although it is not required by federal law, state law and employer policies may also protect employees from harassment or discrimination based on marital status.
Early members of environmental organizations began protesting whale hunts around the world in the 20th century.
Aging and ageism Upholding and protecting the rights of older adults is vital to addressing problems related to ageing and ageism.
The principle asserts both the legitimacy of the aspiration to a United Ireland and the legitimacy of the wish of the majority of the people of Northern Ireland to remain part of the United Kingdom.
In the UK, the University of Exeter runs an MA in Anthrozoology which explores human–animal interactions from anthropological (cross-cultural) perspectives.
See also Reparations for slavery Holocaust reparations Restorative justice References Further reading Carranza, R.
The hakapik may only be used by certified seal-catchers (fangstmenn) operating in the pack ice of the Arctic Ocean and not by coastal seal hunters.
The rights are binding as such and judges can apply the international law as if it were national law.
The European Convention on Human Rights has since 1950 defined and guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe.
His conditions included abiding by a curfew, living with his parents, and having a sister and cousin post a $100,000 bond.
Sacrifice of a lamb, or less commonly a rooster, is a common practice in Armenian Church, and the Tewahedo Church of Ethiopia and Eritrea.
Thus an RS 2477 "highway" which qualifies as a "road" could disqualify the land it traverses from being recognized by the federal government as a "wilderness" if it reduced the area under consideration beneath the 5,000 acre limit.
The "victim" or "victims" of racism and slavery (the two words occurring 90 times in the document) are defined in only the most general geographic terms.
However, they questioned whether this estimate was credible because the same survey suggests that approximately 132,000 perpetrators were either wounded or killed at the hands of armed civilians in 1994.
Design The water in the pools has to be constantly filtered to keep it clean for the dolphins and the temperature and composition of the water has to be controlled to match the conditions dolphins experience in the wild.
The warrant was later denounced as "cynical" by the Israeli foreign ministry, while Livni's office said she was "proud of all her decisions in Operation Cast Lead".
This interference can prevent users from using the most effective means to protect their anonymity online.
Debate in the House of Commons On 4 July 2018, the House of Commons debated the Claim of Right in an Opposition Day debate selected by the SNP, which had previously opposed the document.
Overview A person's liberty right to x consists in his freedom to do or have x, while a person's claim right to x consists in an obligation on others to allow or enable him to do or have x.
On 4 February 2019, at the Founder's Memorial in Abu Dhabi, the Document on Human Fraternity for World Peace and Living Together was co-signed by Pope Francis and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar, Ahmad al-Tayyeb.
Kyokushin karate requires advanced practitioners to engage in bare-knuckled, full-contact sparring allowing kicks, knees and punching although punching to the head is disallowed while wearing only a karate gi, mouthguard, groin guard for males, or chest guard worn under the karate gi for females.
The doctrine also asserts the right of self-determination for the people of both jurisdictions in Ireland, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, without external interference, and only with the consensus of a majority of people in both polities.
See also Banjar, Jungle, Abadi, Shamlat, Gair Mumkin Barani, Nahri, Chahi, Taal Bigha Doab Khadir and Bangar Khasra Measurement of land in Punjab Patwari Shajra Zaildar Village accountant == References ==
This was a non-binding debate and did not create any legal recognition of the Claim of Right or have any legal significance.
A rule that says that states should guarantee freedom of expression to its citizens is self-executing.
This moment was captured by Reuters photographer Francis Kokoroko and has since gained a lot of attention on social media.
18 February: Orders the removal of black kite and crow nests, excluding Edo townspeople districts (extended to those districts from February Genroku 6).
Organizations Privacy campaigners argue that instead of "wasting resources gathering and sifting through the volume of data being accumulated through mass surveillance", resources would be better allocated in providing more personnel for targeted surveillance.
On the contrary, in an interview with Paris Match, philosopher Mark Hunyadi, who signed the text, announced that despite an agreement on the aim of the text, he rejected the idea that animals could have interests that could make them legal subjects.
The first-place winner receives $5,000, the second-place winner $2,500, the third-place winner $1,500, and two honorable mentions receive $500 each.
Insofar as an attack on property is a crime, reasonable force may be used to prevent the crime or to arrest the offender, whether it be theft of a sum of money or the damage of an object.
This list encompasses Americans imprisoned or wrongfully detained abroad by state and non-state actors and includes both citizens of the United States and legal permanent residents.
According to the company, increasing the lifespan of a phone by two years reduces CO2 emissions by 30%.
Views include human rights as an integral part of democracy, human rights requiring democracy, and mutual support between both concepts.
The Commissioner is independent and the principal aim of their office is to safeguard and promote the interests of older people.
Their interpretation of the statute has brought them into conflict with wilderness advocates, the federal government and private landowners.
In this particular case public officials have to apply the so-called "public interest test", meaning that they have to scrutinize and ponder both the exceptions for not releasing information and the reasons of public interest in knowing the information required.
The relevant laws regulating the right to access public information in the Northern part of Cyprus are: the Right to Access Information Law No.
This is a recipe for warlordism, a chaotic society where anyone with enough physical force can make the rules".
Cultural stigma of sexual violence in India Women in India are less likely to report incidences of sexual violence and assault due to greater acceptance of rape myths, which are a set of beliefs suggesting that victims are at fault.
The Court ruled that using deadly force on intruders in an unoccupied property was not reasonable or justified and therefore not a defense to the tort of battery.
If the goat survived it was revered and paraded through the small village, becoming a local legend for years to come.
The villagers used ropes to lower the goat, but in 1993 they went back to dropping the goat from the church.
Background "NETCU provides tactical advice and guidance on policing single-issue domestic extremism.
That same year the United States also enacted the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act which established the National Marine Sanctuaries program.
BBC journalists Thomas Naadi and his cameraman were also arrested in a crackdown but were later released.
Instead, the Second World War began and the children remained in Britain for the remainder of the war and, in most cases, as British citizens thereafter.
According to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, and Utah require publicly funded shelters to surrender animals to any Class B dealer who asks for them.
The goal is to protect it long-term given its appeal for energy producers like Hydro-Quebec and Innergex Renewable Energy.
They developed a bear spray formula with a spray range of over 30 feet (9.1 meters) and a spray time of over 7 seconds.
This can be seen if a primary cannibal is a higher ranked bird in the flock, it could influence more secondary cannibals and spread this behaviour more rapidly.
The idea of an institutionalized regional human rights framework is ongoing, with an objective to establish an ombudsman and security structures that goes beyond the Pacific Islands Forum.[1] See also National human rights institutions == References ==
Countries involved The United States imports around one third of all NHPs sold internationally, with the United Kingdom importing the second highest number.
In India in the late 19th-century, the berries from Withania coagulans were used as a vegetarian rennet and sold in powdered capsules.
186, 199 (1876), is a criminal case in which the court rejected the duty to retreat when using deadly force in self-defense.
US Supreme Court Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone remarked that his colleague Justice Jackson acting as Nuremberg Chief prosecutor was "conducting his high-grade lynching party in Nuremberg.
As of 2023, devocalization is illegal in Maryland, Massachusetts, and New Jersey (unless medically necessary).
Economic simulations show that migration lowers the real wage for both countries receiving and sending immigrants; however, the effect of this decrease is based on the goods and services consumed by an individual.
Under the new law the Commissioner has the faculty to use disciplinary sanctions against those violating the requirements established in the law.
The conclusions called for "the establishment of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience" and supported the proclamation of the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism.
Horns are removed because they can pose a risk to humans, other animals and to the bearers of the horns themselves (horns are sometimes caught in fences or prevent feeding).
She was described as the only person who could help the "dangerous" refugee cases: "Czech democrats, political leaders, Jews, Catholics and Socialists." She resisted orders by the BCRC in London to leave Czechoslovakia.
The principle of transparency in all areas of public life, including media, is expected to be enhanced given that there is an Action Plan Promoting Open Government since 2014 (Greek Action Plan 2014-16).
Family separation is the condition where family members are involuntarily separated from each other, often because of immigration systems, although it can happen for other reasons such as military service or involuntary adoption.
This included the implications of trends like illicit traffic and release of toxic and dangerous products during military activities, war and conflict, shipbreaking.
Punishment "should not be imposed, nor the term of punishment extended, by virtue of a prediction of dangerousness, beyond that which would be justified as a deserved punishment independently of that prediction".
The commission investigated disappearances, political executions, and torture, publishing the Rettig Report with its findings in 1991.
This is to avoid karmic consequences and show respect for living things, because all living beings are equally valued in these traditions, a vegetarian diet rooted in ahimsa is only one aspect of environmentally conscious living, relating to those beings affected by our need for food.
A Khasra Girdawari (Hindustani: ख़सरा or خسره گرداوری) is a legal Revenue Department document used in India and Pakistan that specifies land and crop details.
These include the distinction between civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights, between which the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are often divided.
The point of view of the press, however, is that the general public has a right to know personal information about those with status as a public figure.
Slaughter-free milk is a consumable milk produced from any mammal, normally cows, wherein the farmer later on does not slaughter the animal for meat production.
Separationist thesis Some writers view human rights and democracy as separate things that may not go together.
They illustrated this with the example of the option set "to travel by train" or "to travel by car", that should yield more FoC than the option set "to travel by red car" or "to travel by blue car".
However, some cases become rather notable, such as: 1991 defensive killing of a Nazi skinhead by a famous sculptor Pavel Opočenský, who attempted to help a couple that had been attacked on the street of Prague.
Historical context When the Movement for the Triumph of Democratic Liberties (MTLD) organized its congress in April 1953, the independence option was decided, but the date for the hasty announcement of the insurrection had not yet been set.
The European Court of Human Rights is the only international court with jurisdiction to deal with cases brought by individuals (rather than states).
Farming also implies individual or corporate ownership of the stock being cultivated." In practice, it can take place in the sea or in freshwater, and be extensive or intensive.
Animals regarded as commodities may be bought, sold, given away, bequeathed, killed, and used as commodity producers: producers of meat, eggs, milk, fur, wool, skin and offspring, among other things.
Torture The United Nations Human Rights Committee has stated that in cases of torture, the right to an effective remedy requires states to investigate allegations of torture, prosecute perpetrators, provide compensation to victims, and prevent similar violations from occurring again.
However, it was in 2022 that the denunciation of suicide food first gained momentum, in line with the general public's concerns about the impact of meat and dairy consumption on climate change.
A report of the New Zealand Law Commission examines not only violence by men against women, but also violence by women against men and in same-sex relationships.
Commission for the Control of Interpol's Files The Commission for the Control of Interpol's Files (CCF) is an independent monitoring body.
The landlord of Vágbeszterce (Považská Bystrica) has adopted the document and inhabitants of Bystrica have committed to keep these rules precisely.
2011), is a legal case involving limitations on the right of self-defense and stand-your-ground laws.
National Student Association In 1947, the National Student Association (NSA) in the United States adopted a student bill of rights.
The DPT plan allowed the construction of high-density buildings such as high-rise commercial buildings and condominiums.
The Left Bank townhouse was gradually transformed into a kind of all-purpose Münzenberg salon, attracting the attention of the Gestapo, which spied on the meetings taking place there.
Other researches claim Kesküla had given the Germans little of substance and he did not deliver any significant sums to the Bolsheviks.
He had made a fortune from the war, engaging in large-scale trade, including a major coal deal between Germany and Denmark that gave him considerable political influence.
A party political foundation (German: Parteinahe Stiftung or Parteistiftung) in Germany is a state-subsidised political foundation that's affiliated to a political party.
Senate Bill 29 failed to pass to Third Reading in the Texas House of Representatives by a vote of 58 Ayes, 85 Nays, and 2 Present Not Voting.
Eine Studie über Kosten und Finanzierung der Parteitätigkeit, zu deren Problematik und zu den Möglichkeiten der Reform.
Hester is the sole owner of The Phoenix Partnership, which he founded in 1997 and specialises in providing healthcare technology.
The law firm's partners donated nearly $1.6 million to mostly Democratic candidates and committees between 2010 and 2014.
The election gave Alexander Mackenzie a firm mandate to succeed Macdonald as Canada's new prime minister.
Biden promised during the campaign trail that Attorney General Merrick Garland would work for the American people and not as the President's personal lawyer.
In December 2018, McClatchy reported that in mid-to-late 2016 a cellphone of Cohen's was detected around Prague and that an eastern European intelligence agency had intercepted a Russian communication saying that Cohen was in Prague.
Starting in 2013, Cottrell assumed a number of roles at banks, including Credit Suisse, JP Morgan, and Banca Privada d'Andorra (BPA).
The People's Pledge is a formal campaign finance agreement between all candidates and their campaigns in a given election.
The main charge a was that the bank had loaned Yakov a large sum at a favourable rate to enable him to set up a privately owned construction firm.
The NEC later concluded that anyone who had joined the Labour Party in Falkirk after 12 March 2012, when Eric Joyce announced he was stepping down, would not be allowed to take part in the selection process.
A party political broadcast (also known, in pre-election campaigning periods, as a party election broadcast) is a television or radio broadcast made by a political party.
Examples of direct cash contributions include: Community grants to support local community efforts or nonprofits – 100% of Fortune 500 companies provide some form of community grant or sponsor at least one fundraising event.
Throughout her career, she has published a range of articles on related subjects in scholarly journals including Isis, Representations, Configurations, and History of Political Economy.
Senate in 2014, former head of the American Civil Liberties Union of Maine Chris Johnson, Democratic State Senator Roger Katz, Republican State Senator Angus King, U.S.
It has been accused of being "funded by out-of-state foundations and rich individuals to specialize in "lawfare" against state officials of whose policies they disapprove".
The state laws were first tested with the rise of the Prohibition movement, when state governments sued breweries that had used corporate funds against ballot measures to ban the sale of alcoholic beverages.
A majority of the court held that countries joined to the European Convention on Human Rights may be required to permit minimal levels of campaign spending.
Such reports have to include names or categories of donors and the amount donated for all donors who are not individuals and have donated in excess of NLG 10,000 (now: €4,538).
In a series of covert interviews, the four peers stated that they could use their political influence to amend legislation.
The Saudi Arabia Accountability Act (H.R.2037 Archived 2016-07-05 at the Wayback Machine/S.1171), which imposes sanctions on Saudi Arabia unless it clearly shuts down terrorist organizations within the country and ends support for such organizations outside the country.
Democrats Republicans Independents April Selected campaign-specific finance information through April 30, 2024, according to the FEC.
He began his career on the political left via the public interest movement in the late-1970s working as a community organizer.
Collector During an interview with Tatler, as reported by The Guardian, Cottrell shared details of his art collection, with a collection that includes works by Banksy, Canaletto, and George Stubbs.
Tabung Harapan Malaysia (Malay for "Malaysia's Hope Fund", Abbr.: THM) is a fund launched by the returned seventh Malaysian Prime Minister of the new Pakatan Harapan (PH) government, Mahathir Mohamad on 30 May 2018.
Facts Phyllis Bowman, an anti-abortion campaigner, distributed 25,000 leaflets in Halifax before the 1992 general election on the positions of three candidates on abortion.
Clark's defeat was attributed to intense anti-Clark campaigning conducted by direct mail, mailgrams, and leaflet distribution during the final weeks of the campaign, attacking Clark for his positions on abortion, gun control, and the Panama Canal Treaty.
Lenin's desire to distance himself from the legacy of the robbery may have been one of the sources of the rift between him and Bogdanov and Krasin.
Andersson contacted Sheinbaum, who assembled a small group of three other American Jews to meet in November 1988 in Sweden with four high-ranking PLO officials.
The per-vote subsidy was introduced to replace the reliance of political parties and candidates on corporate, union, and wealthy donors in order to reduce the political influence of such donors.
It helped to fund the DUP's Leave campaign in Northern Ireland, and in mainland Britain, during the Brexit referendum in 2016.
2023 amounts In the financial year commencing 1 April 2023, eligible parties receive: General funding for opposition parties £21,438.33 for every seat won at the last election plus £42.82 for every 200 votes gained by the party.
Kamo later stated that Stalin took no active part in the robbery and had watched it from a distance.
companies in the hospitality, sports, entertainment, logistics, food, consumer, light industrial, retail, manufacturing, and distribution.
July 2020 Selected campaign-specific finance information through July 31, 2020, according to the FEC.
The scheme was a pilot project to assist the opposition to carry out parliamentary duties and counteract the advantage that government ministers enjoy through briefings from civil servants, and was instigated by the trust's secretary, Pratap Chitnis.
The Broadcast Committee of Advertising Practice was established as the regulatory body ensuring that advertising on radio and television is not misleading, harmful, offensive, or beyond the boundaries of taste and decency.
In 2018, the North Idaho Voter Project PAC was created by representatives of the Coeur d'Alene tribe.
Candidates were also required to report finances to the Secretary of State's office in the state they are running for elected office in.
Pauley III sentenced Cohen to three years in prison and a $50,000 fine, and additionally ordered Cohen to pay $1.4 million in restitution and to forfeit $500,000.
It is the living legacy of one of the most distinguished women in Canadian history, who ushered in some of the most progressive legislation of the 1960s.
Personal life Mayhew is married to Ginny, a former model, they have three children, and live in Hampshire.
He was accused of having an unauthorized meeting with Polish military intelligence during a September 1933 trip to retrieve a Lenin archive, as well as having been a German spy.
The Election Funding Authority of New South Wales was the agency of the Government of New South Wales charged with administering the Elections Funding Act 1981.
She was accompanied by fellow Adams administration member and attorney Jesse Hamilton and Cushman & Wakefield real estate broker Diana Boutross, whose phones were also seized at the airport by the New York County District Attorney.
These independent expenditure-only committees, raise money from corporations, unions, and individuals with free rein to express advocacy as they choose.
The Commissioner for Standards at the Northern Ireland Assembly is an officer of the Northern Ireland Assembly.
The acquisition enabled Smulders to expand its capacity in offshore wind infrastructure, particularly the fabrication of jacket foundations and transition pieces for wind turbines.
Personal life Jacobson is married to Mark Penn, president and managing partner of The Stagwell Group, former Democratic pollster and executive for Microsoft and Burson-Marsteller.
His opinion argued that the changed legal landscape had rendered Colorado II obsolete, and that the Sixth Circuit was not precluded from assessing FECA's limits in light of more recent precedent.
Powell, correspondent, and Helen Loomis, missionary teacher, founded the American China Policy Association (ACPA).
On 10 May, Sokolnikov told a meeting of the Central Committee that the Germans could not be trusted to honour the treaty, and that it had been a mistake to sign it.
Under the bill, officers dying from COVID-19 are considered line of duty deaths, which grants benefits to their surviving family members.
Democrats 2019q3 Republicans 2019q3 2nd Quarter 2019 Campaign-specific finance information through June 30, 2019, according to the FEC as of the quarterly filing deadline.
Reports revealed that during the 2018 midterm elections, dark money spending by liberal groups accounted for about 54 percent during the election cycle, outpacing conservative and nonpartisan groups spending, which claimed 31 percent and 15 percent, respectively.
Regulation The concept of political finance can affect various parts of a society's institutions which support governmental and social success.
After hearings in the United States Senate and the United States Department of Labor, Martens was finally deported to Soviet Russia in January 1921.
Career Cottrell was listed as a director in a number of businesses from a young age, both in the UK and overseas.
Jaitley, while defending the anonymity of bonds, argued that if donors were asked to disclose their identity, they would revert back to cash donations.
Clinton - who held up the nomination of a FDA commissioner in order to force approval of Plan B and who spoke so eloquently during the Supreme Court nomination about the importance of protecting Roe vs.
Lord Adonis admitted having private discussions with Byers about it but denied that he had "come to any arrangement", and Mandelson said he remembered no such discussion or meeting.
By 2019, Goldstein said that Zioness was now anti-Trump, while Berman claimed that Milstein used to donate to them but no longer does after the group issued a statement condemning Trump's border policies.
According to Bush, the name was inspired by Congressman Paul Ryan and 1996 Republican vice presidential candidate Jack Kemp.
In Italy, following the abolition of the state financing of political parties, clear examples are initiatives of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi who organized on 6 and 7 November 2014, two fund-raising dinners, held respectively in Rome and Milan, for the Italian Democratic Party.
Plaintiff Shaun McCutcheon is a businessman and electrical engineer from suburban Birmingham, Alabama, who is a campaign contributor and self-described activist of the Republican Party.
The Senedd Commissioner for Standards is appointed by a motion of the Senedd and is an independent officer of the House, working a four-day week.
Early life Ivan Skvortsov was born in Maltsevo-Brodovo village, Bogorodsky Uezd, Moscow province – the village is now Lesnye Polyany, in Pushkinsky District.
The Wall Street Journal reported on November 9, 2018, that federal prosecutors have evidence of Trump's "central role" in payments to both Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal that violated campaign-finance laws.
Other critics have called for limits to cap the amount that corporations and unions can donate to political parties, similar to the $5000 personal donation limit in Canada, with a virtual ban on union and corporate donations.
Arrest and conviction On 22 July 2016, while attending the Republican National Convention with Farage, Cottrell was arrested by IRS Criminal Investigation special agents at Chicago O'Hare International.
While a student at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, Herbster married fellow student Lorienne Gayle Smith in 1975.
Is it to protect Sokolnikov's pride that he has been allowed to play with a whole army?" In August 1920, Sokolnikov was posted to Central Asia as chairman of the government of Turkestan and commander of the Turkestan Front.
Bundling One consequence of the limitation upon personal contributions from any one individual is that campaigns seek out "bundlers"—people who can gather contributions from many individuals in an organization or community and present the sum to the campaign.
the general setup differs because institutions like the Westminster Foundation for Democracy, the National Democratic Institute (NDI) or the International Republican Institute (IRI) are limited to responsibilities in international aid.
In court in December 2008, Kirkham denied the charges, and claimed that while he was "not proud" of what had happened, it was he who had been the victim of a road rage attack.
In that position Martens started works on developing the Kursk Magnetic Anomaly, the largest iron ore deposits in Russia.
The bill would amend the 1971 law to make "reasonable efforts" to ensure ads are not purchased "directly or indirectly" by foreign countries.
Carey, Kelly Eustis, and the National Defense Political Action Committee filed suit against the FEC on January 31, 2011.
Another strategy for reducing youth unemployment that is advocated by the organization is criminal justice reform, since a criminal sentence often traps generations of Americans into cyclical poverty.
The application was opposed by the presiding officers of Parliament – the Speaker of the National Assembly and the Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces – represented by Wim Trengove SC.
In January 2021, a number of companies halted their political contributions in the United States, primarily in response to some Republican legislators' objections to certification of the 2021 United States Electoral College vote count and the ensuing mob that attacked the U.S.
While head of fundraising for UKIP, Cottrell became the chief of staff to Nigel Farage, who was then UKIP leader.
4057) Johnston, Ronald J./ Pattie, Charles J.: 'The Impact of Spending on Party Constituency Campaigns at Recent British General Elections', in: Party Politics, vol.
Abrahams has donated at least £548,850 since 2003, via two colleagues, his solicitor and the wife of an employee.
Membership subs have become a more significant source in income for both the SNP and Labour in recent years, as both have seen substantial increases in membership.
A New York Times analysis found that after a decade spent attacking undisclosed political spending on the right, the Democratic Party "embraced dark money with fresh zeal," spending over $1.5 billion in undisclosed cash in the 2020 election cycle and outspending the Republican Party.
She supported Al Gore’s presidential campaign in 1988, and Bill Clinton's presidential campaign in 1991, and was the finance director of the 1992 Presidential Inaugural Committee.
Alfred Kohlberg, a leader in the China Lobby joined as chairman shortly thereafter to promote American interests by promoting the Republic of China under Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang as a counter to Soviet and Chinese Communist support.
Fraktion (English: faction or fraction) is the name given to recognized parliamentary groups in the German Bundestag.
The organization stated that its goal was to inform millennials of options outside of the Affordable Care Act, and to raise awareness of the cost of the Act for younger generations.
References External links Christopher Charles Sherriff Harborne, International Consortium of Investigative Journalists.
Party organizations, parliamentary groups (party caucusses) and candidates are typically the recipients of public support (in cash or kind).
However, complaints about illegal coordination between political campaigns and PACs involving public material posted online submitted to the Federal Election Commission have not resulted in any action.
Supreme Court attempted to draw a limit on the extent to which campaign finance laws could regulate speech about politics.
Since 2002, Lund Trust has given more than $77.7 million to charities in the UK and internationally.
The Standards in Public Office Commission (SIPO) (Irish: Coimisiún um Chaighdeáin in Oifigí Poiblí) is an independent body established in December 2001 by the Irish Government under the Standards in Public Office Act 2001.
ruled in Carey's favor, which opened the door for any PAC or super PAC to reclassify themselves as a hybrid PAC.
According to TPJ, its board of directors includes, in addition to McDonald, two other veterans of Nader's Public Citizen; a former aide to the late Texas Democratic Gov.
In 1936, Sokolnikov was arrested during the Great Purge, and sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment at the Moscow trials.
In 2023, the EveryLibrary Institute and Book Riot issued a survey to understand parents' opinions on book bans and the trustworthiness of libraries.
2017: R v Mwaikambo where a 43-year-old man posted one video and seven pictures of a victim of the Grenfell Tower fire to his Facebook account.
The Board ultimately voted to close the complaint, finding that Bloomberg’s personal political expenditures to the party were presumptively campaign-related but did not require disclosure as campaign expenditures under the law in effect at the time.
In November 2007 the provisions of the act were again the subject of scrutiny in the cases of Labour party donor David Abrahams and Scottish Labour leader Wendy Alexander.
Democrats February 2020 Republicans February 2020 January 2020 Selected campaign-specific finance information through January 31, 2020, according to the FEC.
The organization was on track to raise $60 million for the 2016 election cycle, much of it earmarked for Hillary Clinton, whose presidential bid EMILYs List had endorsed.
She also said House of Lords members must "abide by its high standards." In a statement to the House of Lords on 26 January Lady Royall called the claims "deeply shocking".
According to his own daughter, Burkle told her that he had sex tapes and compromising photos of his ex-wife produced for blackmail purposes.
She was elected to the Harvard Board of Overseers (2005–2011) and Yad Hanadiv Advisory Committee (2001–2011).
34 of 2007 imposed stricter limits on contributions from individuals and entities that are "doing business" with the city, including principal officers, owners, and certain senior managers of companies holding large city contracts, franchises, concessions, grants, or economic-development agreements.
Personal life Despite his Siberian upbringing, Krasin was considered one of the most urbane and westernised of the leading Bolsheviks.
On October 22, 2019, Zuberi agreed to plead guilty to charges of falsifying records of his work as a foreign agent, tax evasion, and making nearly $1 million in illegal campaign contributions.
While he was not implicated in the corruption probe, McMaster was not immediately able to appoint replacements to retiring board members of the South Carolina Ports Authority (SCPA).
The Director-General of ASIO, Duncan Lewis, stated that Chinese political donors could be channels to advance Beijing's interests.
Williams-Yulee was a judicial candidate in Hillsborough County, Florida, who sent out a soliciting letter for campaign contributions.
Campaign Mainers for Accountable Elections launched its campaign on July 28, 2015, at a rally where Republican State Sen.
Political activist and former school teacher Amy Laufer founded Virginia's List, a political group supporting Democratic women running for office in Virginia.
Bush officially announced his candidacy in June 2015, at which point Mike Murphy took over leadership of Right to Rise.
Hanecki was sentenced to death after a 15-minute trial on 26 November 1937, during which his assistant, Petermeier, testified that he had travelled to Berlin at Hanecki's instruction to collect German marks from a Mr.
Burkle is often seen as a businessman who maintains close relationships with labor unions and works with unions to solve business problems.
During the summer of 1902, with participation of both Ivan Fomin and Alexander Galetsky, Savva funded Schechtel's improvements to the Lianozov-owned theatre built in 1890 at Kamergersky Lane 3 in Tverskoy.
He currently is Chairman of Elysian Capital an independent, private equity firm specialising in investing in the UK lower mid-market in deals of between £10m and £100m, and Chairman of HC-One, a nursing home management company.
On 25 June 2013, in the light of allegations claimed to be contained within the completed NEC internal report, the Labour Party Central Office implemented "special measures" under the Labour Party constitution, and took direct control of candidate selection in Falkirk.
Alexander and Rei Shiratori (eds.): Comparative Political Finance Among the Democracies, Boulder CO: Westview Press, 1994, pp.
Participation In 1977, about 29% of taxpayers checked off the box to contribute $1 of their taxes towards the fund.
Neighbours complained about both a wall Kirkham built to protect his privacy, as well as the noise from a 1998 fireworks party at which the singer was Elaine Paige.
History On 5 February 2016 it appeared in the episode Sea Cities Tyneside of BBC Two series Sea Cities.
The organization has put forth ideas that it claims will "put problem solving above politics", and purports to support centrist, moderate social and economic policies.
He is President of Driffield Agricultural Society and is always present on the last day of the championship dog show to make all the main presentations.
They are given to a wide range of individuals on the recommendation of the leaders of the major British political parties, including opposition parties.
The Commission also oversaw the 2004 North East England Devolution Referendum, the 2011 Welsh Devolution Referendum and also the 2014 Scottish Independence Referendum.
On September 18, 2013 it released a video advertisement named "Opt Out - The Exam - Creepy Uncle Sam".
Protect Our Future was launched as a Democratic political action committee with $10 million in initial funding aiming to support "lawmakers who play the long game on policymaking in areas like pandemic preparedness and planning", according to Politico.
Later when they discuss financing, Trump is heard saying something about "pay with cash", to which Cohen responds "no, no, no", but the tape is unclear and it is disputed what is said next; the word "check" can be heard.
Some leading think-tanks like the Overseas Development Institute have called to increase support for political parties as part of developing the capacity to deal with the demands of interest-driven donors to improve governance.
"Follow the money" is a catchphrase popularized by the 1976 docudrama film All the President's Men, which suggests political corruption can be brought to light by examining money transfers between parties.
John Huang's memo to Vice President Gore's assistant Kimberly Tilley specifically mentioned that the temple meeting was a fundraising event.
EMILYs List in the past has received some criticism for how much money they are accepting and where that money is going to as being a Political Action Committee or PAC.
The video received over 600,000 views within its first 36 hours, 3.5 million views within its first week, and drew a response from President Obama during a speech in Maryland.
According the information given by 27 out of 54 recognized regional parties to Election Commission of India by May 2023, DMK received 96.01% (₹306.025 crore) of its total income (₹318.745 crore) from unknown sources.
Mel Stride, the Work and Pensions Secretary, said the comments about Abbott "were clearly inappropriate" but people should "move on" and such comments were not "race-based" and "had nothing to do with her gender nor colour of skin".
For example, one survey in the United States found that 23% of candidates for statewide office surveyed say that they spent more than half of their scheduled time raising money.
He studied there at the University of Strathclyde, earning a bachelor's degree and PhD in applied chemistry.
Every woman candidate running for the Liberal Party of Canada receives support from the Judy LaMarsh Fund.
Scofield said that corporate speech unrelated to corporate property "becomes the purely personal views of corporate management [and is] undeserving of the constitutional protection afforded by Bellotti." Former Judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit J.
The petitioner had been convicted of receiving money for political purposes in violation of the Act.
Describing the NSW government of Morris Iemma, O'Farrell said: "This is a Government where many people are of the view donations buy influence and decisions.
Although the demarcation between campaign financing and routine activities due to overlapping election cycles and "permanent campaigning" is quite difficult, Austrian law has for a long time provided for separate subsidies from the federal budget.
A Belgian court ruled in 2004 that the party's predecessor Vlaams Blok had encouraged discrimination against foreigners.
Vlaams Belang At the present time an attempt to use the law would most likely be made against the far-right Flemish party Vlaams Belang.
Her lawyer called Herbster's lawsuit "a frivolous and bad faith attempt to bully a sexual assault victim into silence." In court papers, Slama gave specific and graphic details on how Herbster assaulted her in public and requested a jury trial.
Kenny Klinge (Reagan's Convention manager) and Roger Stone then chose to dedicate NCPAC to the 1977 elections in Virginia, backing Wyatt Durrette for Attorney General and a number of General Assembly candidates.
He acted as an advisor to Boris Johnson on his trip to Kyiv in September 2023 to meet Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The dozen indoor protesters had zip tied themselves to scaffolding in an attempt to occupy the Capitol building.
Criminal charges On February 4, 2019, federal prosecutors in New York subpoenaed communications between Zuberi and the Inaugural Committee as part of a broader investigation that included fraud and money laundering.
It's obvious satire." Funding In 2013, Politico reported that Generation Opportunity had received a $5 million grant from Freedom Partners, a group of about 200 donors that is associated with Charles and David Koch.
A national TULO committee, with the unions' general secretaries, the Party Leader and Deputy Leader, General Secretary and NEC Chair and MPs' representatives, meets regularly to co-ordinate work and policy.
The Supreme Court ruled that corporations have First Amendment speech protections extending beyond material commercial interests, reversing the decision made by the Massachusetts Supreme Court.
The Cash-for-Honours scandal (also known as Cash for Peerages, Loans for Lordships, Loans for Honours or Loans for Peerages) was a political scandal in the United Kingdom in 2006 and 2007 concerning the connection between political donations and the award of life peerages.
Later career Skvortsov-Stepanov was appointed chief editor of Izvestia in June 1925, having supported the triumvirate of Josif Stalin, Grigory Zinoviev and Lev Kamenev against Leon Trotsky.
In late 2016, Offshore Group Newcastle (OGN) sold its Hadrian Yard fabrication facility in Wallsend, North East England, to the Belgian steel construction company Smulders Group.
PUMA's founders state that the group originated out of online comments of a group of Clinton supporters on a pro-Clinton blog, The Confluence, which was created by New Jersey biochemist and former John Edwards supporter "Riverdaughter," who had been recently banned from a pro-Obama liberal blog.
Reaction The Interactive Advertising Bureau has argued against regulation as being too restrictive, in favor instead for self-regulation.
The case hearings and investigations went on for several years until 2012 when the Supreme Court of Pakistan eventually found Nawaz Sharif, Aslam Beg, Asad Durrani, bankers, and other conservative politicians from the PML(N) responsible and guilty of their acts.
History Founded in June 2018 by the Federation of American Hospitals, America’s Health Insurance Plans, and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the Washington, DC–based partnership now includes the American Hospital Association and the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association.
A new electoral system was installed: The lower house was divided between 300 single-seat constituencies and 200 seats distributed by proportional representation.
He said he doesn't consider that policy in conflict with the group's work in highlighting the impact of money in politics.
The amendments also required financial disclosure by candidates for the first time and established limits on the amount of money that candidates were allowed to spend on their campaigns.
In 2014, Herbster created the Republican-leaning Ag American super-PAC and contributed $100,000 between 2014 and 2015.
This means his total donations so far to Reform UK (including former Brexit Party donations) has been over £24 million since 2019.
CLEAT has accused sheriff offices of union busting and fought for the right of union representatives to be paid for their union work.
Wagman, CPA, author of The Democratic Party Campaign Treasurer's Handbook, two members of the Federal Election Commission and other prominent government and accounting professionals experienced in the financial management of political campaigns.
PATA, the Palestinian Anti-Terror Act (H.R.4861 Archived 2008-11-04 at the Wayback Machine/S.2370), which restricts aid to the Hamas-dominated Palestinian Authority (while still allowing humanitarian aid) unless certain actions opposing terror are taken.
Political activity The company donated over £100,000 to the Conservative Party during the 2019 United Kingdom general election Structure It is an offshore fabrication yard on the north bank of the River Tyne in Wallsend, near Point Pleasant, opposite the former site of Hebburn Colliery.
He is chairman of JMH Group which includes Fosroc as well as luxury goods brands Ray Ward, Bernard Wetherill (Savile Row men's outfitters) and Fitriani (women's fashion design and retailer).
Facebook has publicly supported the bill, although campaign transparency advocates have accused the company of lobbying against it.
Burkle Center for International Relations at UCLA, to promote "research on and promotes discussion of international relations, U.S.
During his time as Chair, Mayhew oversaw a significant transformation at the charity, overseeing the organisation’s strategy and programmes to help drive progress in dementia research.
Prior to the United Kingdom leaving the European Union, this also applied to parties contesting elections to the European Parliament.
The Standards and Privileges Committee is a former committee of the United Kingdom House of Commons that existed from 1995 to 2013.
For this reason, it is particularly important in the period preceding an election that opinions and information of all kinds are permitted to circulate freely.
Her opinion criticized the majority for casting doubt on the reasoning of Colorado II, and offered a defense of FECA's coordinated party expenditure limits on the merits.
The votes, triggered by representatives objecting to the electoral results from Arizona and Pennsylvania, occurred hours after rioters supporting incumbent president Donald Trump stormed the Capitol building to disrupt the vote.
It is named after Lord Cranborne, who was the leader of the House of Lords when it was introduced on 27 November 1996.
A branch of Russian State Bank was robbed by members of the Latvian Social Democratic Workers' Party to fund Bolshevik revolutionary activities in Russia.
In other countries, the rising costs of political competition stimulated the spread of party subsidies (government funding).
In My Vote Counts NPC v Speaker of the National Assembly and Others, the Constitutional Court of South Africa dismissed an application which sought to compel Parliament to pass legislation mandating the disclosure of political party funding information.
Due to restrictions against campaign donations from private groups or individuals, Belgian political parties rely mostly on the state for funding.
Members donate directly to EMILYs List, which bundles the checks together and forwards them to candidates.
Previously executive chairman of DFS Furniture Company Ltd, Kirkham is a strong political and financial supporter of the Conservative Party, and is one of South Yorkshire's richest men, with a personal fortune estimated at £1 billion.
Super-PACs must disclose their donors, though, they can accept unlimited donations from non-profit organizations, such as 501(c) organizations and "shell" corporations who do not have to disclose their donors.
Board and staffing Restore’s board of directors included treasurer Spies; Carl Forti, political director for Governor Romney’s 2008 campaign and of American Crossroads Super PAC; and Larry McCarthy, a member of Governor Romney's media team in 2008.
The auditor's report merely mentioned that they did not observe the actual execution of the party's programs or activities.
Further concerned that his reputation was being traduced, he made a strenuous plea for clarity in the handling of his candidacy on BBC2's Newsnight on 10 March 2006 and in a letter to the HLAC stated that he was mystified and deeply distressed by the apparent rejection.
The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 is a realistic and enforceable bill, an important step forward in an area which has been of great public concern.
Senate election in Massachusetts and the democratic primary for the 2014 gubernatorial election in Rhode Island.
Current factions Following German unification in October 1990, members of the East German parliament joined, resulting in some joint ventures until the 1990 German federal election in December.
A subscription-based website, it is intended as a response to what Gutowski characterizes as misinformation about firearms and related issues in the mainstream media.
These, together with its ammunition have to be stored in an approved gun cabinet (EN1143-1 grade 0 or better).
2007: Officer of the Order of Australia for distinguished service to the community as an advocate and campaigner for gun control.
2014 Sydney hostage crisis On 15–16 December 2014, gunman Man Haron Monis, held hostage 17 customers and employees of a Lindt chocolate café located at Martin Place in Sydney, Australia.
The demonstration followed the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting in Parkland, Florida on February 14, 2018, which was described by several media outlets as a possible tipping point for gun control legislation.
Over the last ten years or so European countries in general have made efforts to harmonise the previously fragmented rules and regulations with parallels being taken from the more difficult UK system.
Hance had in the lead up to the shooting sought out repayment of a debt that he had previously forgiven, when he had previously been unmotivated by money.
Patrolman Speed was shot through a gap in the masonry between decorative balusters on the South Mall at 12:08 p.m.
The HSUS is also working with the US government and policymakers to ban activities such as trophy hunting and cosmetic animal testing.
In 2005, the phrase was parodied by The Onion in their "300th Anniversary" issue dated June 22, 2056.
"Found/Tonight" is a mash-up charity single of two popular musical theatre tracks from Hamilton and Dear Evan Hansen, with the proceeds partially donated to the March for Our Lives anti-gun violence movement.
The track is performed by actor Ben Platt, who originated the role of Evan Hansen, and Hamilton creator and star Lin-Manuel Miranda, and was arranged by frequent Miranda collaborator Alex Lacamoire.
See also Jacobite rising of 1745 Highland Clearances Highland Potato Famine Scottish national identity Wars of Scottish Independence Notes References External links Act Against the Highland Dress
The Postenpflicht was originally issued on October 1, 1933, for guards at Dachau concentration camp, but was later extended to other concentration camps.
They were developed by Intratec, an American subsidiary of the Swedish firearms manufacturer Interdynamic AB.
Awards and honours Costello received the Victorian of the Year award in July 2004 in recognition of his public and community service.
History of firearms restrictions in Germany The Ewige Landfriede (Perpetual Public Peace) ruling of 1495 banned the medieval right of vendetta (Fehderecht) in the Holy Roman Empire (which encompassed most of what is modern Germany).
Monks said the intention behind it was tied to the 250th anniversary of the United States' independence.
Vieira ran for a seat in the senate from Sergipe in the 2018 Brazilian general election, and was elected with 474,449 votes or 25.95% of the ballots cast.
He has supported the transfer of orphans from the Far North and the Russian Far East to families in the Caucasus region.
The permit or license scope varies according to what firearm(s) or activity(s) it allows the holder to legally do with the firearm.
Sean Moon hosts a webcast during which he discusses reports from sources such as Breitbart News and InfoWars.
1997) - Here, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit considered whether Congress overstepped the bounds of the Commerce Clause in banning simple possession of a machinegun (18 U.S.C.
Fifteen survivors sued the county, sheriff, and school officials for failing to protect them, contending that the government's inadequate response to the shooting violated their Fourteenth Amendment right to due process.
The Oxford English Dictionary defines the term to bear arms as: "to serve as a soldier, do military service, fight," dating to about 1330.
In the videos, Cruz appears to describe his personal feelings, his enthusiasm and plan for the shooting, his hatred of people, and how it would make him notorious.
See also Hunt Saboteurs Association League Against Cruel Sports References Further reading Books Braunstein, Mark Mathew (November–December 1995).
He also contested the claim that access to weapons by CACs (Collectors, Shooters and Hunters), is less enforced or that there is greater ease.
Each of these decisions deals with the Second Amendment (which is a part of the Bill of Rights), the right to keep and bear arms, the Commerce Clause, the General Welfare Clause, and/or other federal firearms laws.
According to several eye witnesses and the sheriff's department, Feis quickly ran to the scene and attempted to protect students from gunfire.
Additionally, 3D-printed receivers and even full guns such as the FGC-9 have been made entirely of 3D-printing and household techniques and technologies, which have placed law enforcement entities in a position where full enforcement becomes increasingly complex or in some cases almost impossible.
This new law was enforced by Major-General George Wade, who used it to successfully confiscate a significant number of weapons.
In the subsequent debate surrounding gun politics in Australia, Mikac became a prominent advocate for tightening gun laws.
5.123, of 1 July 2004 allowed the Federal Police to confiscate firearms which are not possessed for a valid reason; self-defense was not considered a valid argument.
Foreign visitors could hold a "visitor's permit", which allowed them to possess any legal firearm without a licence; this licence would be granted by the local police.
West Midlands Police and the BBC’s show “Forensics: The Real CSI- Untraceable Firearms” are credited for inspiring or confirming the contents of the OpSec & Obfuscation Section by the authors.
IANSA advocates that private citizens undergo a licensing process before they possess firearms, and that legally possessed firearms be stored unloaded and away from ammunition.
Blanket ownership licenses are issued to arms dealers, firearms experts and – with limitations – to collectors.
Clad only in her underwear, she surrendered to the officers when ordered to do so, becoming hysterical and shouting, "Help, murder, police," when she saw plaintiff lying wounded on the floor.
See also Black powder Muzzle Loaders Associations International Committee List of shooting sports organizations References External links Muzzle Loaders Association of Great Britain
The 2016 and 2018 election cycles, saw the National Rifle Association contribute to an extensive amount of candidates as a result of the state of the country's political landscape at the time of those cycles.
On February 16, Broward Schools Superintendent Robert Runcie announced that the building where the shooting took place would be demolished.
On March 17, 2019, thirteen months after the shooting, 19-year-old Sydney Aiello, who survived the shooting, died by suicide.
Every year in Spain, organisations such as Equanimal or the platform Matar por matar, non are involved in the sabotage of the Copa Nacional de Caza del Zorro (Spanish: "National Fox Hunt Cup") following the hunters making noise with megaphones to scare foxes and preventing them from being killed.
President Salva Kiir Mayardit used shadowy networks of arms dealers from China, Uganda, Israel, Egypt and Ukraine to arm his forces.
In Monroe County, east of McMinn County and north of Polk County, 65-year-old county sheriff Jake Tipton was shot and killed during a dispute at the Vale precinct.
A minority of states permit individuals who have the right of immediate possession of land to use reasonable force to regain possession of that land, with Texas being the only state to allow the use of deadly force to regain possession of land or property.
Seventeen-year-old Diren Dede’s death did not have to happen – and we know that unfortunately, there are laws on the books that embolden people like Mr.
The parliament also ratified the Treaty of Edinburgh–Northampton which ended the First War of Scottish Independence.
Further, the statement presents two polarizing extremes, namely that either the guns or the people are entirely to blame, while this is not the case with either gun-rights advocates or opponents, as they usually lie somewhere between the two extremes.
The speculation included false claims that the shooting did not happen or was staged by "crisis actors".
Anti gun toy controversy In 1955, the New York City Council passed a bill to ban the manufacture, sale or possession of imitation revolvers that resemble the real article too closely.
The police authorities were the executing authorities and had to comply with the orders issued by the Gestapo.
President Donald Trump also acknowledged the event, and stated that the United States Constitution was "under very serious attack" in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Arms Act 1960 (Malay: Akta Senjata 1960) is the main legislation that governs the licensing, dealing, manufacturing and ownership of firearms and ammunition in Malaysia.
Anne Marie Murphy, the special education teacher who worked with special-needs students in Soto's classroom, was also shot and killed; she was found covering six-year-old Dylan Hockley, who also died.
Background Following the Parkland high school shooting, the superintendent of the New York State Department of Financial Services (DFS) Maria T.
Roy Innis, former President of Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and a member of the National Rifle Association's governing board, said "to make inexpensive guns impossible to get is to say that you're putting a money test on getting a gun.
In doing so, Lott lumped together both legal and illegal immigrants in prison into a category for illegal immigrants, leading to an elevated crime rate for illegal immigrants.
Political activities Federal politics Before the 2004 federal election, the Australian Shooters Party was deregistered by the Australian Electoral Commission for failing to contest a federal election for four years.
Precursors of the passage of the Gun Control Act were Senate Bill 1975 in 1963, "A Bill to Regulate the Interstate Shipment of Firearms," and Senate Bill 1592 in 1965, "A Bill to Amend the Federal Firearms Act of 1938." Both were introduced by Senator Thomas J.
The GVA maintains a database of known shootings in the United States, coming from law enforcement, media and government sources in all 50 states.
In addition, victim Scott Beigel's family started a memorial fund in his name with the goal of funding summer camp tuition for students traumatized by school shootings, a passion of Beigel.
Capability and firing tests According to Sky News, during the initial test Solid Concepts stated: "It functions beautifully.
In 1989, four states became shall-issue: Georgia, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia went from may-issue to shall issue.
On 7 August 2014, the couple obtained marriage licences in the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea in London.
One of the requirements for the "CR" Concession is that the shooter must maintain a link with a Shooting or Hunting Club, that is, be regularly up to date with his financial obligations; prove and participate effectively in shooting practice, courses, training and/or competitions.
Printer The printer used for the initial development of the Grizzly series was the Stratasys Dimension 1200es, which was used to create the original Grizzly 1.0 and 2.0 versions.
During a demonstration by University students, Castellanos was pushed down by police when she attempted to stop them from breaking up the gathering.
They claim that there was no "discernible difference in performance over that year, there was no muzzle rise to speak of and no increase in report when firing".
After taking fire, Deputy Smith returned fire with his vehicle still in motion and used his patrol car to ram Arroyo's truck.
A crisis actor (aka actor-patient or actor victim) is a trained actor, role player, volunteer, or other person engaged to portray a disaster victim during emergency drills to train first responders such as police, firefighters or EMT personnel.
It has won recognition and awards from government, the University of Adelaide, volunteer groups and the Nature Foundation.
The world's armed forces control about 133 million (approximately 13 percent) of the global total of small arms, of which over 43 percent belong to two countries: Russia (30.3 million) and China (27.5 million).
In December 2017, Public Health England accused him of presenting factual errors during a Federal Government Enquiry His full reply to these claims was published in Hansard (submission 313.1 Selected books Chapman, Simon (2022).
Since the cases were handed down, he wrote: "The Heller and McDonald rulings established, as a matter of law, an individual rights interpretation of the Second Amendment.
In response to the guilty verdict in the Kaarma case, the Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a non-profit organization, released the following public statement from its Montana Chapter volunteer Julia Starrett.
Sixty disarmament centres were created in the country and the penalty for illegal firearm possession was raised to twenty years imprisonment.
Section 3 made it an offence for someone under the age of seventeen to possess a functioning crossbow, or of sufficient parts to make a functioning crossbow, unless under the supervision of an adult.
Nevertheless, Jacobite Army troops quickly acquired many of Brown Bess muskets and bayonets after their victory at the Battle of Prestonpans.
In a televised debate with Ian McNiven, vice-president of the Firearms Owners Association, the latter declared that guns were necessary for men to defend women against the invasion of Indonesians in Australia, to which she replied that domestic violence was probably a much bigger issue.
A short-lived website claimed major public health and other associations as its members, but was removed about 1998.
See also Firearm death rates in the United States by state References External links Official website
The Second Amendment to the United States Constitution refers to a pre-existing right to keep and bear arms: A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.
Bausman is said to have met with the Church and other Stop the Steal advocates in a private meeting after the rally.
Even in the face of these explicit warnings from other banks, Commerce West did not terminate their Internet transactions or file a Suspicious Activity Report, an alert banks are required to file with the government indicating the presence of suspicious illegal activity.
In 2001, the Supreme Court of California ruled that Intratec was not liable for the 1993 101 California Street attacks, and that same year Intratec was dissolved and production of the AB-10 model ceased.
Section 4 gave a police constable the power to search someone or their vehicle, if they suspected an offence was being committed under section 3; to detain someone for the purpose of this search; and to confiscate any crossbow or part of a crossbow which was found.
De Leo, Dwyer, Firman & Neulinger, studied suicide methods in men from 1979 to 1998 and found a rise in hanging suicides that started slightly before the fall in gun suicides.
Initially, several individuals upon and close to the campus mistook the sound of gunfire for noise sourcing from a nearby construction site and thought that the persons falling to the ground were participating in either a distasteful joke or a symbolic protest against the Vietnam War.
Using the difference in differences identification approach, they found that after the NFA, "there were significant decreases in armed robbery and attempted murder relative to sexual assault".
Experts disagree upon whether this tumor contributed to the homicidal rage and despair which drove Whitman to commit the massacre.
The ROE were communicated to agents on site, including communication to HRT sniper/observers prior to deployment, communications that included the change of "adult" to "adult male" to exclude Vicki Weaver.
For acoustic systems that require the supersonic shock wave for location determination, the bullet must still be traveling at supersonic speed when it passes the sensor, and it must pass the sensor within the lateral span of the shock wave.
That same month Charles Schumer introduced the bill in the House and Howard Metzenbaum did so in the Senate.
The NRA then filed its appeal to the Eleventh Circuit, where a three-judge panel initially upheld the law's constitutionality on March 9, 2023.
Meadow Pollack was a senior who was shot four times; upon being initially wounded seconds after Cruz had fatally shot Scott Beigel, Pollack crawled toward a classroom door, where a 14-year-old freshman named Cara Loughran—also wounded by Cruz—had sought refuge.
Hungary Gun laws in Hungary are relatively strict, regulated by Code 24/2004, governmental decision 253/2004.
Three strikes legislation In April 2024, Associate Justice Minister McKee and Prime Minister Christopher Luxon confirmed that the Government would proceed with plans to reintroduce three strikes legislation, which had been repealed by the previous Labour Government.
A California law requiring the use of microstamping technology in all new semiautomatic firearms sold in the state has attracted controversy.
Morgan was found not guilty of battery or discharging a firearm in his 2007 trial; no verdict was returned on attempted murder.
As the timeline of the police unit and program has roughly paralleled the development and growth of the rap-styled UK Grime urban music scene, Trident and Grime have had numerous and varied interactions that have mirrored early controversy and conflict around American Gangsta Rap.
While the ATF does not track homemade firearms, the FBI reports that their use in crimes is increasing.
The Act also does not extend to Crown Dependencies such as the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man, where handguns are still used in target sports.
Causes Gun violence has many different psychological and external causes that can be attributed to it.
As February 2022, among the top six arms exporting countries, only France (since February 2019) and Germany (since October 2021) have ratified the protocol.
The only exception to this federal law are commemoration pistols, which have special engravings, and these can only be gifted by government officials for acts of heroism.
In 2008, he was nominated by Outdoor Life as one of the OL25 for "changing the face of hunting and fishing".
Bruen On June 23, 2022, the Supreme Court issued a decision in New York State Rifle & Pistol Association, Inc.
Despite reservations of the Czech Republic and Poland, the Directive was adopted by majority vote of the European Council and by first reading vote with no public debate in the European Parliament.
sanctions against Russia, to which he replied, "I don't think you'd need the sanctions." Butina hosted a birthday party attended by Erickson and Trump campaign aides shortly after the 2016 election.
Assault weapons Connecticut has bans on defined 'assault weapons', which includes selective fire firearms unless purchased before October 1, 1993, and a limited list of semiautomatic AR, AK, and SKS variants.
Airsoft guns are practically prohibited in China, as muzzle energy limits classify them as real firearms.
On 1 May 2019 Mauro had his official profile removed by Facebook due to publishing content considered to be promoting violence and that violated the website's guidelines.
Although born in Rio Grande do Sul, he has spent his political career representing Sergipe, and was previously deputy general of the civil police in the state from 2016 to 2017.
History The February 13, 2014 decision is written by Diarmuid O'Scannlain, with Consuelo María Callahan joining and Sidney Runyan Thomas dissenting, and affirmed the right of responsible, law-abiding citizens to carry a handgun in public for lawful self-defense.
He appointed Vice President Kamala Harris to oversee the office and three subject experts to lead the work: Stefanie Feldman as director and gun violence survivors Greg Jackson and Rob Wilcox as deputy directors.
The following week, the California Attorney General directed state law enforcement authorities to cease enforcement of California's own good cause restriction.
In 2013 Venezuela stopped issuing new firearm licenses, and in 2017, the government banned the carrying of firearms in public places.
60% of gun owners have guns for personal safety/protection, 36% for hunting, 13% for recreation/sport, 8% for target shooting, 5% as a Second Amendment right.
Witnesses and former prisoners have also reported cases where prisoners intentionally walked into the forbidden zone, to escape the camp through death.
Justice Sonia Sotomayor authored the Court's unanimous decision, favoring the NRA, stating that "[g]overnment officials cannot attempt to coerce private parties in order to punish or suppress views that the government disfavors".
See also List of notable 3D printed weapons and parts References External links AR-15_WarFairy_P-15_Stock_v2.0-WarFairy
Reaction and analysis The Secretary of State for Scotland, Michael Moore, described the legislation as the largest transfer of fiscal powers from central government since the creation of the United Kingdom.
It is an offspring of the Charon open source project, which was a 3D-printable AR-15 lower receiver project that was partially inspired by the P90.
hunting without a license, shooting on or across highways and unlawful killing or taking of big game." Australia All gun owners in Australia must have a firearms licence (see gun laws in Australia), but normally do not require a licence to hunt feral or invasive pest species (e.g.
Brazil Concealed carry in Brazil is generally illegal, with special carry permits granted to police officers allowing them to carry firearms off duty, and in other rare cases.
On February 16, 2017, the en banc Eleventh Circuit, issuing two majority opinions, ruled that three of the law's four provisions—the anti-harassment, record-keeping, and inquiry provisions—violate the First Amendment.
G22v2 (Grizzly 2.0) Released shortly after the first version, Grizzly 2.0 featured a 50% larger barrel with rifling, a larger receiver, and a new hammer for improved durability.
Act 1745, was an act of the Parliament of Great Britain, which came into effect in Scotland on 1 August 1746.
During an Open Carry Guitar Rally, citizens congregate in a public place while displaying their instruments, a parody of similar gatherings held by gun rights activists.
Operating cycle To fire, the operator loads the rounds into the barrel, and re-attaches the barrel to the rest of the weapon.
Since the bump-stock-type devices covered by this final rule were not in existence prior to 1986, they would be prohibited when the rule becomes effective.
Massacre survivor and gun-control advocate Nathalie Provost criticized The CCFR on December 2, describing the code as "incredibly disrespectful".
Nigel Hallett was elected for the Liberal Party in South West Region, but changed to the Shooters, Fishers, and Farmers in June 2016.
It was created by WarFairy The stock works a lower receiver for the FN-P90 but would work with any standard AR.
In 2005, he founded the Academy of Procedural Law and the Conservative Institute of Mato Grosso do Sul.
For example, gun laws in Australia require firearms to be registered by serial number to the owner, who holds a firearm licence.
United Nations activities IANSA was involved in lobbying the 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms which produced an agreed Programme of Action.
In the aftermath of the shooting, Feis was universally praised for the selflessness of his actions during the shooting.
The students chanted "no justice, no peace" Tuesday and carried "enough is enough" signs outside Northwestern Senior High School.
Within hours of the inauguration of President Donald Trump on January 20, 2025, the office was shut down and its White House web page taken offline.
As requirement for obtaining the Hunting License, a Hunter Education Course must be passed, according to the Ley Forestal y de Fauna Silvestre 29763.
The act, as amended, controls the possession of crossbows by people under the age of eighteen throughout the whole of the United Kingdom.
He also began teaching that Hyun Shil Kang, one of Sun Myung Moon's first disciples, was now True Mother instead, as his spirit had married her.
It was presumed that he killed two of the four staff members involved in the altercation (the principal and the psychologist) and wounded the third (the lead teacher) in the attack; the fourth staff member was not at the school that day.
The Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence has pointed out that the ATF under the Bush administration (2001–2008) was unable to produce any evidence that law enforcement officers were harmed by the agency's release of crime gun trace data prior to 2003.
This number for a country does not indicate the percentage of the population that owns guns, because single individuals can own multiple guns.
Rittenhouse stood over McGinniss for half of a minute before fleeing, and was heard saying "I just killed somebody" on his cell phone to his friend Dominick Black as he sprinted out of the parking lot where he had shot Rosenbaum.
Policy The Sportsman's Association exists to fight for the restoration of target pistol shooting as a legitimate sport and for fair and effective firearms legislation.
In 2019, the organization encouraged members to make official complaints about medical doctor Najma Ahmed who was advocating for legal prohibition of assault rifles and pistols in Canada.
Founder The organization was founded by Pati Navalta whose 23-year-old son, Robby Poblete, was murdered in Vallejo in 2014.
It states that authorities have total discretion when determining whether persons can own firearms and can therefore deny applications without reason, even if someone met all requirements.
It outlawed anyone in defined parts of Scotland from having "in his or their custody, use, or bear, broad sword, poignard, whinger, or durk, side pistol, gun, or other warlike weapon" unless authorised.
Hance had previously displayed erratic and bizarre behavior, and was considered by those who knew him to be delusional.
According to Human Rights Watch these partisans are responsible for abuses including war crimes, crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing.
2017 study found that suicide rates declined more in states with universal background check and mandatory waiting period laws than in states without these laws.
Giltaca said he shot his first firearm in San Diego, California, and later "shifted [his] entire career to the firearms industry".
Handguns held by virtue of Section 7(1) may only be held as part of a collection and may not be fired.
Kinnunen then turned to his left, presumably to open fire on the crowd, and was then shot dead by Wilson.
The additive manufacturing process permits curvilinear designs that are too expensive or impossible to do by subtractive methods.
Actions In 2016, the Defense Institute, in partnership with the IMBEL ("Brazilian Military Material Industry"), started producing videos of that company's guns.
On 14 May 2019, Conservative MP Crispin Blunt called for the government to go into an "electoral arrangement" with the Brexit Party to ensure Brexit was to happen on time.
Idaho voters will decide between six guns which they would prefer to be the official state gun in the non-binding referendum.
In November 2021 it was announced that the families of the victims had reached a $125 to $130 million settlement with the federal government, due to the FBI's inactivity about tips on Cruz's stated desire to commit a school attack and the weapons cache that he had.
Mandatory registration of weapons was also introduced, enabling the government to access relevant data, such as the type of weapon and the identity of the owner at any given time.
It ran to three issues and its recommendations foreshadowed the legislation implemented under John Howard.
The "CR" is granted to people over 18, remembering that for the acquisition of firearms, according to the current Brazilian legislation, it is necessary to be 25 years old.
The directive required Member States to enact legislation that would require marking and registration of any firearm or essential part for sale, and to establish a national computerised registration database.
Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (1993): Requires background checks on most firearm purchasers, depending on seller and venue.
However, Department of Justice initiatives to combat mass-market consumer fraud must be legitimate exercises of the Department's legal authorities, and must be executed in a manner that does not unfairly harm legitimate merchants and individuals.
Miller (1939) the Court did not address incorporation, but whether a sawn-off shotgun "has some reasonable relationship to the preservation or efficiency of a well-regulated militia." In overturning the indictment against Miller, the U.S.
Background Prior to founding The Reload, Stephen Gutowski worked as a beat reporter on the topic of guns at the conservative Washington Free Beacon for almost seven years.
In a 1988 interview, when asked about his newly published book The New Inquisition: Irrational Rationalism and the Citadel of Science, Wilson commented: I coined the term irrational rationalism because those people claim to be rationalists, but they're governed by such a heavy body of taboos.
On March 4, 2024, the Philippine National Police amended the Implementing Rules and Regulations of R.A.
He was arrested in May 2014 after he had posted a video online of himself firing a 3D-printed Zig Zag revolver.
Slogans Among the slogans used in the protests were "You're packin' heat, I'm packin' meat" and "Take It and Come." == References ==
Events Upon arriving at the facility, Hole first entered the building to speak with security before returning to his vehicle.
Exhibiting a firearm for any of the scheduled offences (without discharging) carries a penalty of life imprisonment and caning of not less than 6 strokes.
Pew Research Center poll in August 2015 can be looked at as well for asking surveyors based on partisan lines about background checks for gun shows and private sales.
Provisions of the act Section 1 of the act made it an offence to knowingly sell or hire a crossbow (or part of a crossbow) to a person under the age of seventeen; section 2 created the converse offence of buying or hiring a crossbow whilst underage.
Governor Scott responded by filing an appeal of Cooke's ruling, which sent the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.
Some laws allow the accused a defense to the charge that the item in question was going to be used for a specific set of lawful purposes, such as one's occupation (examples are sets of knives carried by a line cook en route to his job, or tools carried by a construction worker or craftsman).
South Yorkshire Police later said that they had to return them because there was no evidence that Wood was a threat to himself or others.
In May 2009 The Observer reported a Foreign Press Association speech given by Farage in which he had said that over his ten years as a Member of the European Parliament he had received a total of £2 million of taxpayers' money in staff, travel, and other expenses.
Some other government employees, such as forest rangers, village headmen, customs officers, judges, and prosecutors, also have lifetime carry licenses.
March 1 NRA-sponsor boycotts The students from Parkland, Florida began encouraging companies who partner with the NRA—offering perks or discounts to members—to sever ties with the organization.
The movement does not adhere to any one specific ideology but rather maintains a commitment to free and open-source software design principles.
Borilović was a recreational hunter who had a gun licence for the hunting carbine that he used during the shooting.
The HBSA also encourages research and study of historic breech-loading firearms and offers advice on the drafting of UK firearms legislation, particularly where this affects historic arms.
What do you think you're doing?" However, as the reality of the unfolding events dawned upon the public, those present on the ground took refuge behind any available form of cover.
(Section 5 Authority is usually only granted to members of the Gun Trade.) Pistols and rifles below these energy levels are still termed firearms and are dealt with under the Firearms Act, but do not require licensing in England and Wales, and may be purchased by anyone over the age of 18.
Case history 2013 arrest In July 2013 Tama Talum – also known by his Chinese name Wang Guanglu (Chinese: 王光祿; pinyin: Wáng Guānglù; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Ông Kong-lo̍k) – a 54-year-old man from the Bunun tribe, went hunting in the mountains in Taitung County to obtain meat for his elderly mother.
The company's public response to the controversy was limited to addressing major claims, and expressed gratitude for Botkin's contributions.
Causes Demand An estimated 8.4 million people bought firearms for the first time in 2020, according to an official of the National Shooting Sports Foundation, and they are also buying ammunition.
Schießbefehl occurrences at the border were also recorded by the Bundesgrenzschutz (BGS or Federal Border Guard, the West German border guards), the West Berlin police, and by the military police of the Allied Forces.
At the time of the raid Ballew was gainfully employed as a printing pressman at the Washington Star newspaper and was a Boy Scout troop leader.
With the question being "In general, do you feel that the laws covering the sale of firearms should be made more strict, less strict or kept as they are now?" the result was 58% of respondents in favor of stricter laws, 6% supporting less strict laws, and 34% in favor of keeping laws the same.
Based on time stamps of the police logs, the order was given some time after the shooting had stopped.
It is named after Dianne Feinstein, a congresswoman who has introduced gun control bills in the US Congress.
Havel), Havel decided to sell his 50% stake in the Lucerna Palace on Wenceslas Square in Prague, built from 1907 to 1921 by his grandfather, also named Václav Havel (spelled Vácslav,) one of the multifunctional "palaces" in the center of the once booming pre-World War II Prague.
History and usage The concept of a regulatory "race to the bottom" emerged in the United States during the late 1800s and early 1900s, when there was charter competition among states to attract corporations to base in their jurisdiction.
One commonly cited example of this effect is clean air laws, as states may be incentivized to lower their standards to attract business, knowing that the effects of the increased pollution will be spread across a wide area, and not simply localized within the state.
For his method, which combines the rigour of empirical research while opening onto wide perspectives in an admirably balanced way, both through comparison and through the study of interconnected histories.
Findings highlight how firms which clearly and openly reveal offshoring decisions and practices experience lower levels of decline in consumer trust compared to firms that do not.
It was the relationship between local circumstances and regional, imperial, or global contexts that invariably determined whether or not football took root.
A country may recognize another nation as a state and, separately, it may recognize that nation's government as being legitimate and capable of representing the state on the international stage.
Other constraints may include geographical and environmental challenges, and cultural influences that affect health literacy.
The borderers suffered much deprivation due to cross-border raiding and recourse to the common law failed to bring any restitution, even when the justices were present to hold the assizes.
His final novel The Quarry appeared in June 2013, the month of his death published posthumously as his 27th novel.
This negative trend intensified during 2009, exacerbated in some countries due to the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus, resulting in a worldwide decline of 4.2% in 2009 to 880 million international tourists arrivals, and a 5.7% decline in international tourism receipts.
His first science fiction book, Consider Phlebas (1987), marked the start of the Culture series, consisting of eight further novels.
He proposes that the superclass's disproportionate influence over national policy is constructive but always self-interested, and that around the world, few object to corruption and oppressive governments, provided they can do business in these countries.
Though there are also other, more complex language puns, the title of this routine has gradually replaced the term Lübke English when a German speaker wants to point out naive literal translations.
explicit 0% rate of tax) include (fuller list in table opposite): ♣ΔJersey (United Kingdom dependency), still a major traditional tax haven; the CORPNET research identifies a very strong connection with Conduit OFC Switzerland (i.e.
The TJN supplemented his report with another report on the consequences of the analysis in terms of global inequality and lost revenues to developing economies.
"Covid-19: Pandemic heightens calls for international court to tackle grand corruption." International Bar Association.
His main interests are ontology, political philosophy and the critique of religious and intellectual traditions.
He was descended from the Anderson family of Ardbrake, Bothriphnie, Scotland, who had settled in Ireland in the early 18th century.
The stance against siyokoy words is instituted in the KWF Manwal sa Masinop na Pagsulat style guide, which was written by Almario as KWF chair.
In these respects, the IACC is similar to, but distinct from, the International Criminal Court (ICC), and may be designed in a way that draws on the strengths of the ICC model while avoiding some of its weaknesses.
Although a lower court approved the extradition, Poland's Supreme Court later overturned the decision.
Early life Ng attended Raimondi College, on the Mid-Levels in the City of Victoria on Hong Kong Island – which served as the polling station of the constituency he later represented.
(TSCP), which sponsors the Transglobal Secure Collaboration Program, was established in 2002 as a collaborative forum of organizations in the defense industry to address security issues with collaboration.
The use of a long-arm statute is usually considered constitutional where the defendant has certain minimum contacts with the forum state and there has been reasonable notice of the action against that defendant.
Artistic choices that were ordinarily viewed in purely aesthetic terms were recast in terms of historical literary practices and norms, in an attempt to develop a systematic inventory of the constraints they imposed on the artist as an individual creative subject.
He then proposed "hyper-modern," similar to post-modern but with a superlative and unstoppable meaning, focusing on new technologies, markets, and global culture.
From the standpoint of the New Haven approach, jurisprudence is a theory about making social choices.
For the international rounds, in 2013, semi-final rounds were introduced for the top nine teams, with the top three teams proceeding to the championship final.
A mission of three experts, none of whom may be citizens, residents or appointees of any of the states concerned, is appointed to visit the requested state and provide a report within two weeks of the appointment of the full mission.
Protocol II (1977): Protocol Additional to the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949, and relating to the Protection of Victims of Non-International Armed Conflicts.
In non-diplomatic usage, referring to someone as persona non grata is to say that the person is not popular or accepted by others.
James Laxer wrote about his experiences growing up during this period in his memoir Red Diaper Baby: A Boyhood in the Age of McCarthyism.
The term has been particularly used for smaller tax havens, with examples being Delaware, the Seychelles, and Jersey.
The Tangier International Zone was a 373 square kilometre concession administered by several countries in the Moroccan city of Tangier and its environs between 1923 and 1956.
Scientists working on the International Geosphere-Biosphere Programme have said that Earth is now operating in a "no analogue" state.
2006, "Global Public Goods", in: Roland Robertson and Jan Aart Scholte (eds.) Encyclopaedia of Globalization, Routledge.
The push for selling of items in the east drove European production and helped integrate the inhabitants of Europe into the exchange.
Arab and Muslim countries While many Muslims welcome globalization, many other Muslims see globalism to be imperialistic and a cultural invasion that attempts to destroy their heritage and cultural beliefs.
Chomsky argues that the doctrines and development of a pro-corporate system, consisting of economic and political policies that restrict the public arena and support private power, acts essentially as a social hierarchy which places the drive for profit over the wider needs of the population.
Displacement Although the process of across-boundaries flow was imbalanced, it cannot be denied that it has profound influence on politics, economics, and culture from every dimension.
In some cases, however, other factors, such as better insurance or faster transit time, will cause the shipper to choose an option other than the lowest bidder.
Career In 2013, Prakash joined Center for Innovating the Future (CIF), a foresight practice based in Toronto, Canada.
The Belfast Guidelines is a project led by Professor Louise Mallinder and Prof Tom Hadden of the Transitional Justice Institute.
The term is derived from the Philippine mythological creature siyokoy, roughly equivalent to the merman, ultimately derived from the Hokkien shui gui (水鬼, "water ghost").
Disadvantages An alternative to market-based or competitive governance is civic-based or partnership governance.
During the Second Boer War (1899–1902), the South African Republic was annexed as the Transvaal Colony, which existed until 1910, when it became the Province of Transvaal in the Union of South Africa.
Defining the field Beginning in the late nineteenth century, several groups extended the definition of the political community beyond nation-states to include much, if not all, of humanity.
The Fourth Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War was adopted in 1949.
ILP also measures the extent to which individuals are held accountable for abuses in international conflicts.
Ghosh currently lives in New York with his wife, Deborah Baker, author of the Laura Riding biography In Extremis: The Life of Laura Riding (1993) and a senior editor at Little, Brown and Company.
It has been suggested that global politics may be best understood as an "imaginary" of a political space existing beyond the sub-national, national, and international.
Following the convictions the US used threats and diplomatic pressure to stop the Italian executive branch from issuing arrest warrants and extradition requests for the Americans.
The chapters A succinct summary of the book chapter by chapter is offered in: 'From Climate to climatism', How an Ideology is Made.
Many nonprofits do not have either the administrative capacity to track this data or the ability to physically meet the performance measures.
In addition to the Basel III Capital Adequacy Ratio requirements, on November 10, 2014 the FSB issued a consultative document that defines a global standard for minimum amounts of Total Loss Absorbency Capacity ("TLAC") to be held by G-SIBs.
It is estimated that $100–180 billion in assets have been diverted by national leaders through embezzlement or unnecessary expenditure in recent decades.
See also Damnatio memoriae Exile Ostracism Outlaw Refugee Notes References External links Media related to Persona non grata at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of persona non grata at Wiktionary eDiplomat.com: Glossary of Diplomatic Terms Text of the Vienna Convention – PDF
Military globalization is defined by David Held as "the process which embodies the growing extensity and intensity of military relations among the political units of the world-system.
Many existing policies regarding science and technology are inadequate to handle the fast-paced dynamics of techno-globalism due to their slow responses.
Old English is markedly different from Modern English, such that 21st-century English speakers are entirely unable to understand Old English without special training.
Definition "Think globally, act locally" urges people to consider the health of the entire planet and to take action in their own communities and cities.
2008, "Vom westfälischen Staat zum intermediären Staat, oder: Warum wir einen fairen Multilateralismus brauchen", in: Ditmar Staffelt and Peter Struck (eds.), Deutschland in der Globalisierung; Chancen und Herausforderungen, Keyser Verlag, Berlin.
A jurisdiction is the legal authority of a court, government, or other entity to make and enforce laws within a defined area.
For legal purposes, it is a condition of the 3rd drafting of the Geneva Agreement that a detainee may request that their crimes be proven to justify their incarceration.
Impacts The patterns of cultural globalization is a way of spreading theories and ideas from one place to another.
Euromonitor International Top City Destinations Ranking Euromonitor International rated these the world's most visited cities by international tourists in 2017: World Travel and Tourism Council == References ==
More recently Jones and Khanna have published on the importance of corporate reputation in emerging markets, employing data from the Creating Emerging Markets project.
The laws of such areas would not be respected and their people, property and territory might be seized, conquered or colonised.
Jus de non evocando is an ancient feudal right stating that no one can be kept from the competent court.
Consumerism in the 21st century led to the widespread consumption of technology products that created common behavioral and cultural patterns among individuals around the world.
Throughout six different countries in Africa and the middle east CAR documented weapons that had a high chance of originating in the Libyan stockpiles.
The protocol predates Pakistan's 2016 ratification of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction (1980).
Invasive species Globalization intensifies the spread of invasive species through the increase of trade transportation.
List of world constitutions Efforts to formulate world constitutions have been present throughout history, often arising in response to global crises or conflicts.
He campaigned against the practices of ship breaking in Indian shores for hazardous waste disposal, and against ground water exploitation and waste dumping by Coca-Cola in Kerala known as Plachimada Coca-Cola struggle.
Latin America and Global Capitalism: A Critical Globalization Perspective (Johns Hopkins Studies in Globalization).
Cultural property, also known as cultural patrimony, comprises the physical items that are part of the cultural heritage of a group or society, as opposed to less tangible cultural expressions.
History USSTRATCOM was originally formed in 1992, as a successor to Strategic Air Command in response to the end of the Cold War and a new vision of nuclear warfare in U.S.
In addition, American military personnel could potentially make up to $1,000 per month if they have a good command of foreign languages, according to Money magazine.
Marketisation of Governance: Critical Feminist Perspectives from the South by Viviene Taylor; Published 2000, SADEP, University of Cape Town; ISBN 0-7992-2019-1.
A Jewish student in the class brought a complaint against Robinson, stating that she felt intimidated by his e-mail.
Sometimes the Greater Region of Saarland-Lorraine-Luxembourg -Rhineland-Palatinate-Wallonia-French Community of Belgium- and German-speaking Community of Belgium, which has not found a specific shortcut yet, is called "the macroregion".
An opinion poll from March 2022 found that 76% favored Austria remaining neutral, versus 18% who supported joining NATO.
A Christian contemporary in the 7th century, John of Nikiû, stated the following regarding the conquest of Alexandria by 'Amr: On the twentieth of Maskaram, Theodore and all his troops and officers set out and proceeded to the island of Cyprus, and abandoned the city of Alexandria.
Moreover, Chomsky also indicates the harmful effects of policies that are prescribed to poor countries from institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organization and the World Bank.
This is in collaboration with French shipping giants CMA CGM who have provided 200 million euros in support of the government's plan to decarbonise the shipping industry.
Recently Jones has focused on the history of green business and sustainability, and has written on the societal responsibilities of capitalism.
R&D offshoring Product design, research and the development (R&D) process is relatively difficult to offshore because R&D, to improve products and create new reference designs, requires a higher skill set not associated with cheap labor.
Jürgen Osterhammel (born 1952 in Wipperfürth, North Rhine-Westphalia) is a German historian specialized in Chinese and world history.
Table of contents Part One: International relations in a global era Part Two: The historical context Part Three: Theories of world politics Part Four: Structures and processes Part Five: International issues == References ==
In terms of the places designated for the days of truce, most seem to have been, by the sixteenth century, on the Scottish side of the border line.
Characteristics of resource-poor settings are poor healthcare infrastructure, financial limitations, a scarcity of trained professionals, poor healthcare technology, and a discontinuous supply chain.
China In December 2018, Meng Wanzhou, Chief Financial Officer of Huawei, was arrested in Canada at the request of the U.S., which was seeking her extradition to face charges of allegedly violating sanctions against Iran.
The Russian Federation continued submitting GEMI data even after the invasion and annexation of Crimea in 2014.
Peter Gowan (15 January 1946, Glasgow – 12 June 2009) was a professor of international relations at London Metropolitan University, activist, published author and public speaker.
or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, is declared to be illegal").
In this competitive free-for-all, products and services flow from many locations to many destinations.
Italo-Australian, an Australian-based dialect based on Italian with loanwords from Australian English and Italianizing English words.
But to date, the best efforts can only identify loosely defined "planetary boundaries" beyond which tipping points exist but their precise locations remain elusive.
Background Democratic globalization is a political ideology in which a majority of citizens have a say in decisions that impact their lives.
The states described their five main concerns as: freedom of peaceful assembly; arbitrary arrest and detention; targeting of political opposition in police raids and arrests; and "mistreatment that may constitute" torture.
The main ingredient of climatism: climatism as a master narrative, its Manichean worldview and its apocalyptic rhetoric.
This is a chronological list of international declarations, declarations of independence, declarations of war, etc.
Article 107 says that nothing in the Charter invalidates or prevents any action in relation to an enemy state that was taken or authorised as a result of World War II by the governments responsible for such action.
TSCP’s chain of trust includes government entities and their prime contractors, as well as suppliers.
When detachment occurs within a country, the new entity is usually administered subsequently by a supervening entity, such as a national/federal government.
This reduces the exchange-rate risk, transaction costs and assures potential investors that returns are reasonably safe.
The modern day ease of international travel and corollary increase in international marriages is leading to a rapid rise in the number of international child abductions.
It seeks to provide a set of principles, structures, and laws to govern the relationships between states and address global issues.
Ng is now a local councillor in Wokingham, England and was a councillor in the Central and Western District Council in Hong Kong.
That explains why Thai English speakers perceive and produce lax sounds as short sounds and tense sounds as long sounds, which gives their pronunciation its uniqueness (Kruatrachue, 1960).
In addition, a person is sometimes infected with both hepatitis B virus (HBV) and HIV, and this population (about 2.7 million) accounts for about 1% of the total HBV infections.
One of the main criticisms brought forth against the integration of commercial principles and activities within voluntary organizations is the potential for diversion from the original organization mission.
According to a profile of Curtis by Tim Adams, published in The Observer: "If there has been a theme in Curtis's work ...
Nations such as Mexico, Egypt, Algeria, and Saudi Arabia maintain significant grain import requirements, while China heavily relies on soybean imports.
Some authors consider executive agreements to be treaties under international law in that they bind both the United States and another sovereign state.
It is an inter-university competition on international humanitarian law for law schools in the Asia-Pacific region (Asia, Australia, and New Zealand).
He was also a visiting Professor of Political Science at Libera Università Internazionale degli Studi Sociali Guido Carli.
Economic liberalism follows the same philosophical approach as classical liberalism and fiscal conservatism.
It was first proposed by Adam Smith in An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (1776), which advocated minimal interference of government in a market economy, although it did not necessarily oppose the state's provision of basic public goods.
While Anderson faced many attacks in his native Britain for favouring continental European philosophers over British thinkers, he did not spare Western European Marxists from criticism, such as in his Considerations on Western Marxism (1976).
Good neighborliness is a general principle of international law with particular importance for the field of international environmental law.
In this mock "course", he translates every sentence back or forth between English and German at least once (usually from German literally into English).
It plays a central role in the protection of Al-Aqsa, in addition to observing the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the Kashmir conflict.
Laxer co-wrote and presented the five-part National Film Board documentary series Reckoning: The Political Economy of Canada in 1986, which examined Canada's economic and political relationships with the United States and Canada's place in the changing global economy.
The UNESCO Public Library Manifesto is a document approved by UNESCO in 1949 and updated in Paris on 29 November, 1994.
During the elimination rounds, this is also the place where teams and arbitrators will gather after each round to learn with team will move on to the next round.
In 2014, the Australian Parliament passed the Migration and Maritime Powers Legislation Amendment (Resolving the Asylum Legacy Caseload) Act 2014 (Cth).
The central government proved too weak to manage the growing economy as the sovereign states incurred national debts and independently managed their national currencies without central coordination.
The only way to increase sale opportunities was to offer fair trade products where consumers normally shop, in large distribution channels.
This mass measurement scale is used to calculate the activities that countries participate in, more specifically the globalization actives listed above that contribute to their economy's wealth.
Economic liberalism is a political and economic ideology that supports a market economy based on individualism and private property in the means of production.
But in the twentieth century, he perceived the rise of advertising, marketing and 'public relations' trying to manipulate the public and discourage critical thought, and he perceived the state, political parties, and interest groups increasingly using the same approaches to win votes.
Almario, who has been critical of siyokoy words since 1976, is more tolerant of jejemon and bekimon, which he characterize as "cultured language" meant to be intelligible by everyone and thus are not "permanent languages".
Gibson Bowles, The Declaration of Paris of 1856: being an account of the maritime rights of Great Britain; a consideration of their importance; a history of their surrender by the signature of the Declaration of Paris (London, 1900) online United States Congress.
Economic organizations – based on macro-economic policy goals: Some are dedicated to free trade and reduction of trade barriers, e.g.
SIBs), during years where the total lending in the specific nation starts to grow faster than the national GDP.
Remittances Remittances to India are money transfers from Indian workers employed outside the country to friends or relatives in India.
Electoral performances Borough of Wokingham, England Central and Western District, Hong Kong Personal life Ng is married with two children.
See also Emergency Committee of Atomic Scientists (ECAS) Political views of Albert Einstein Thane Read World government World Constitutional Convention call World Constitutional Convention Constitution for the Federation of Earth References External links Citizens for Global Solutions
Chapter 3: "Liberal Democratic Constitutionalism and Meritocracy: Hybrid Possibilities" revisits debates over the qualities of political meritocracy versus electoral democracy as forms of good governance.
In the 2005 constitution of the Republic of Sudan, the official languages of Sudan are Arabic and English.
In an interview in 2007, Stiglitz explained further: The theories that I (and others) helped develop explained why unfettered markets often not only do not lead to social justice, but do not even produce efficient outcomes.
"Braudel, Capitalism and the New Economic Sociology Archived 2012-03-20 at the Wayback Machine", Review, XXIV, 1, 2001.
Scholars could so far not empirically verify the limits of the Brussels effect in international law, especially World Trade Organization (WTO) law.
Each state in a federation—such as Australia, Germany, and the United States—forms a separate jurisdiction.
Held was an advisor of Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, son of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, who received his PhD from LSE in 2008.
Friedman popularized the term "flat world", arguing that globalized trade, outsourcing, supply-chaining, and political forces had permanently changed the world, for better and worse.
Before its invention, trade routes were reliant on wind patterns, but steamships reduced shipping time and shipping cost.
From 2012 until 2018, he was chair of the Commission on the Anthropology of Tourism of the International Union of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences, and took up that position again in 2024.
Chomsky describes mass education as a system solely intended to turn farmers from independent producers into unthinking industrial employees.
The first of these is the University of Reading, where he created a rich intellectual environment, starting in the 1970s, in which deep theoretical analysis and rich empirical work was fostered to explain the activities of multinational enterprise.
A documentary about Motley's husband shooting entitled, When Claude Got Shot, won an Exceptional Merit in Documentary Filmmaking Emmy in 2022.
This established statehood based on objective criteria – permanent population, defined territory, functioning government and capacity to enter relations with other states – rather than cultural civilisation.
Despite the lack of any official D-SIB designation, the banks being subject to the USA Stress Test can be considered to be D-SIBs in the US.
This is in contrast to an action resulting from cognitive reaction or behaviors habitual to an individual.
These two powers had agreed that they would not seize enemy goods on neutral vessels nor neutral goods on enemy vessels.
The medieval world of 'rights and wrongs' has been replaced by a modern one of 'powers, forces, dynasties and ideas".
Brunner accused publishers of a conspiracy against him, although he was known to be difficult to deal with.
Its successor, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), was adopted on 14 April 2016 and had a global effect.
The primary difference between a plurilateral treaty and other multilateral treaties is that the availability of reservations is more limited under a plurilateral treaty.
A multinational force is a multinational operation which may be defensive, offensive, or for peacekeeping purposes.
Constitution for the Federation of Earth (1950s onwards) Albert Einstein Albert Einstein grew increasingly convinced that the world was veering off course.
Initial aims of the investigation included the securing of evidence in Sweden that could be later used in legal proceedings in Sweden, another country exercising universal jurisdiction, or the ICC investigation.
See also Ulster University School of Law Transitional Justice Transitional Justice Institute Amnesty law References External links Belfast Guidelines TJI Facebook Page TJI Main Page TJI Twitter Page
He taught classes on Marxist literary criticism, the Frankfurt School, the French novel and poetry, and Sartre.
This offsets, for example, misperceptions that can result from failure to note the Hebrew origin of a word that may have become widely known in Anglophone contexts via Yiddish, and may be, therefore, simply regarded as Yiddish.
On 12 February 2026, Amitav Ghosh won The Wise Owl Literary Award 2026 Non Fiction category, for his book Wild Fictions: Essays.
More often, however, detachment is a result of the creation of a new, sub-national geographical entity within one country.
According to the UFM, Milei inherited a repressive tax system with a tax burden of more than 30% to GDP, and a 60% public debt to GDP.
Property rights Juma's research helped to improve understanding on the role of property rights in conservation under the rubric of "ecological jurisprudence" as outlined in the volume, In Land We Trust (Zed, 1996).
The UN describes SDG 14 as focusing on conserving and sustainably using the oceans, seas and marine resources.
Currently more and more corporations are finding it extremely important to analyze the environmental damage of their company.
Wolofization or Wolofisation is a cultural and language shift whereby populations or states adopt Wolof language or culture, such as in the Senegambia region.
Under the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, a person has the right to cross national borders if they are seeking asylum from political repression or various other forms of persecution.
A further definition: “An organization is "transnational" rather than "national" if it carries on significant centrally-directed operations in the territory of two or more nation-states.
The practices include shifting autonomy and decision making outward to satellite operations; redeploying assets to build commerce within emerging regions; and expanding quickly into new markets to match the speed and scale with which challengers are rising.
Nevertheless, they are two separate moots with separate registrations and fees, as well as separate winners – the Vis East is not a regional elimination moot for the Vienna competition.
In response, Japan claimed the clauses to be ineffective and rejected that China can take military action against it under them.
She is a Tutorial Fellow at Somerville College, Oxford and a professor of International Relations at University of Oxford.
Initial fields of investigations included indiscriminate attacks on civilians and on civilian infrastructure, the use of cluster munitions and reports of Russian forces having death lists for killing Ukrainian activists and politicians.
Diana Twede has shown that amphorae used in Mediterranean trade between 1500 and 500 BCE exhibited a wide variety of shapes and markings, which provided information for purchasers during exchange.
Network-centric warfare relies heavily on the use of high-speed communications, which allows all soldiers and branches of the military to view the battlefield in real-time.
It is different from a reprisal in that the retorsion is always an action in conformity with international law, though unmistakably an unfriendly one.
Examples In 2018 Peng Xufeng and his wife were sued in California by Changsha Metro Group Co., a Chinese state-owned company, for alleged bribery and misconduct.
Inevitably, Giddens concludes that all social change stems from a mixture of micro- and macro-level forces.
Quasi-judicial institutions, by contrast, make rulings on cases, but these rulings are not in themselves legally binding; the main example is the individual complaints mechanisms available under the various UN human rights treaties.
Decreases can be explained by wars, and periods of conflict and tension often leading to them, where international actors cannot reach consensus on trade agreements and usually give in to protectionism.
Intelligence Law is the field of law that pertains specifically to the fields of intelligence and espionage; the legality of domestic and foreign intelligence gathering by states, and the illegality of those same activities within the borders of any state.
Though there are no internationally agreed processes that guarantee fair delimitation, several organizations, such as the Commonwealth Secretariat, the European Union and the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES) have proposed guidelines for effective delimitation.
As an important juridical novelty in international law, the treaty for the first time created the possibility for nations that were not involved in the establishment of the agreement and did not sign, to become a party by acceding the declaration afterwards.
President Ronald Reagan cited Ibn Khaldun as an influence on his supply-side economic policies, also known as Reaganomics.
A candidate that won an election, for example, is the designated holder of the office the candidate has been elected to, up until the candidate's inauguration.
Previously, other methods to ensure fulfillment of international obligations, like oaths or the receiving of hostages, were also called guarantees.
Postmodernity and consumerism In the mid-to-late 1990s, Bauman began to explore postmodernity and consumerism.
CORPNET's Conduit and Sink OFCs study split the understanding of a tax haven into two classifications: 24 Sink OFCs: jurisdictions in which a disproportionate amount of value disappears from the economic system (i.e.
These activists also point out that heavy subsidization of developed nations' agriculture and the aggressive use of export subsidies by some developed nations.
The emergence of new business and governance practices better suited to a truly global and decentralized business environment.
The Kyoto Protocol differentiated between Annex-I, richer countries with a historical responsibility for climate change, and non-Annex-I countries, but this division is blurred in the Paris Agreement as all parties are required to submit emissions reduction plans.
Marula oil is considered a delicacy by local people, and is added to many traditional and modern recipes.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
Michel thought it would be a good way for young chefs to gain experience in French restaurants, which were not open to employing British chefs at the time.
The food was cooked in large conical or rounded pots with tapered or pointy bottoms that sat well in the soil and ash of the bonfire or hearth.
The siru is an earthenware steaming vessel that dates back to the late bronze age of the Korean northern peninsula and the use of the utensil spread to the entire peninsula by the time of the Three Kingdoms in which the popularity of siru-tteok grew.
DACA offers an International Culinary Arts Diploma accredited by World Association of Chefs Societies, the Verband der Köche Deutschlands e.V.
An accordion cut is a technique in butchery, similar to butterflying, in which a thick piece of meat is extended into a thin one with a larger surface area.
On 5 September 2007, Emeritus Archbishop Desmond Tutu was appointed patron of National Braai Day (now called Braai4Heritage).
Escoffier "elevated the role of cooks from that of laborers to artists"; when he died, he "left the world a new art, that of dining".
The painting came from Kirchner's estate and today belongs to the collection of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum in Madrid.
Unlike other dry heat methods, dry roasting is used with foods such as nuts and seeds, in addition to some eaten insects such as house crickets.
Porous bags Some dry products, typically grains, are sold in perforated plastic bags and designed for convenient cooking directly in the enclosure.
In the Sinai Peninsula as well as part of the Levant, samneh is traditionally prepared using a leather bag.
Types Bowl- or cone-shaped – the usual colander Mated colander pot – a colander inside a cooking pot, allowing the food to drain as it is lifted out See also Chinois Zaru References External links Colander vs Strainer
Documented evidence of a commitment to raw food was by the Ethiopian monk Qozmos, who in the late 1300s CE committed to the ascetic discipline of eating only uncooked food.
The food is dipped in melted butter and then sprinkled with a mixture of herbs and spices, usually some combination of thyme, oregano, chili pepper, peppercorns, salt, garlic powder, and onion powder.
"He stands alone." See also The Blind Assassin (2000) by Atwood: "...the twelve course dinners that went along with it: celery and salted nuts first, chocolates at the end.
The head of the central shaft is frequently modified to form a bottle opener, or foil cutter, increasing the utility of the device.
Designed for convenience, the hexamine stove folds into a compact size for easy storage and transport.
Similar dishes Corn pudding is not to be confused with hasty pudding, which is typically made from ground corn, rather than whole-kernel corn.
White mustard (Brassica hirta) does not yield allyl isothiocyanate, but the milder 4-Hydroxybenzyl isothiocyanate degraded from sinalbin rather than sinigrin.
They are also used to make jellies and cook vegetables in the tradition of a normal steamer or blanching for freezer storage.
This soup is cooked and eaten hot, and more bread is used than in gazpacho, so it absorbs much of the water and tomato juices.
This should be done with the blade held at an angle to the steel, usually about 20°, and repeating on the opposite side at the same angle.
Generally, meat that is high in fat content, such as duck, has no need of being covered during roasting.
A single cup within a regular muffin tin is 100 millilitres (3.5 US fl oz) and most often has room for 12 muffins, although tins holding 6, 8, 11, 24, and 35 muffins do exist.
In Medieval France, the ones in Paris were known for their special privilege of being able to speak frankly to the King himself, when he ventured into the marketplace, and voice criticism without fear of punishment.
Some additives and preservatives used may include carrageenan, citric acid, monosodium glutamate, sodium citrate, sorbic acid, and xanthan gum, among others.
Over time, gridirons have been developed specifically to accommodate the type of food being prepared and the cooking method being used.
Bernardin's design is a one-handed table-mounted opener such as for bartenders; Painter's patent, received February 6, 1894, is a hand-held design - otherwise both essentially worked the same for the same purpose.
The key, then, is to kill the bacteria by heating the mixture to 52–63 °C (126–145 °F) at the moment the cheese is at the isoelectric point, meaning the state at which half the ionizable surface amino acids of the proteins are positively charged and half are negative.
A keeping room is a room or informal living space adjacent to a kitchen where family and guests can gather while meals are being prepared.
A Remoska (also known as Prodiż) is a small portable electric oven with the cooking element housed in the lid of a pot.
See also Rice cooker, a kitchen appliance that automates the cooking of rice, and may maintain rice hot, ready to eat Rice huller, a machine that removes the chaff or outer fibrous hull from grains of rice Rice preparation, processing of rice == References ==
Other products where drum drying can be used are, for example, starches, breakfast cereals, baby food, and instant mashed potatoes to make them cold-water-soluble.
This process raises the susceptor patch temperature to levels where it may then heat food by conduction or by infrared radiation.
The product has also been praised for its environmental sustainability due to its refillable nature.
Starbucks Corporation, for example, was targeted in 2008 for wasting over 6 million US gallons (23,000 m3) of water daily through use of dipper wells.
In 1992, she established her own gourmet baking business, selling to several New York City eateries including Dean & DeLuca, Felissimo and Petrossian.
Culinary Arts 1 Kitchen Job / Workplace Kitchen Food Fundamentals/Simple meal preparation Preparation of egg cookery Preparation of salad, vegetables, mushrooms etc.
Usually, a small amount of low CO2-producing citrate-fermenting lactococci or leuconostoc bacterial strains are added to the starter mix for the production of diacetyl for added buttery or creamy flavours.
The Japanese term tenmoku is derived from the name of the Tianmu Mountain, where Japanese priests acquired these tea bowls from Chinese temples to bring back to Japan, according to tradition.
Use Honing steels are used by lightly placing the near edge of the blade against the base of the steel, then sliding the blade away from oneself along the steel while moving it down – the blade moves diagonally, while the steel remains stationary.
Traiteur is an agent noun formed from the verb traiter ('treat'), which literally refers to the action of "treating" someone to something (for instance, a meal).
Afterwards, the butter is then strained until one is left with a clear batch of melted butter (smen).
Since the summer of 2016, the coffee maker is on permanent loan to the Heinz Nixdorf MuseumsForum in Paderborn.
A steel wire gridiron was developed and patented as early as 1889 in New Haven, Connecticut, by William C.
The handheld reamer, which is held in one hand while the lemon or lime is held in the other, is a relatively new adaptation of the traditional glass or plastic citrus reamer (with a juice rim) that was placed on a table and pressed downward.
Similar utensils Other examples of serving slices include those for serving cakes, pies, and other desserts; the pudding trowel or pudding trowle is a predecessor of the fish slice.
The electrical field strength and the residence time are the key process parameters which affect heat generation.
See also Braising Frying Sautéing Notes References External links How to Sweat Ingredients on YouTube Definition Archived 2015-04-17 at the Wayback Machine How to Sweat Vegetables
Early years Madison grew up in Davis, California, and earned a bachelor's degree with high honors in sociology/city planning in 1968 from Cowell College at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
If the surfactants are at equal concentrations at the interface, proteins are generally less effective than small surfactants, such as lecithin or monoglycerides, at decreasing the interfacial tension.
Nacha tries the cake batter, and suddenly is overcome with grief at the memory of her lost love, and is too ill to attend the wedding.
In Melvyn Bragg's memoir Back in the Day, he recalls his grandfather in the pub with "a gill of bitter" in front of him.
Soda jerking was dominated by popular young men with loud personalities and good people skills because of the fashionable environment and "cool" association.
Edible products Edible rendering processes are basically meat processing operations and produce lard or edible tallow for use in food products.
In northern England, a quarter pint could also be called a jack or a noggin, rather than a gill, and in some areas a half-pint could be called a gill, particularly for beer and milk.
Culinary students work in the kitchen and in the front of the house as wait staff, while the pastry students make bread and pastries for the restaurant and bakeshop.
Some advantages of drum drying include the ability to dry viscous foods which cannot be easily dried with other methods.
Dried fish most commonly cod or haddock, known as Harðfiskur, is a delicacy in Iceland, while dried reindeer meat is a traditional Sámi food.
According to University of Hong Kong researcher Xiaomeng Liu and Chinese media, the earliest form of popcorn cannon was invented by American botanist Alexander P.
A traiteur (; French: [tʁɛ.tœʁ]) is a French food-seller, whose places of business were arguably the precursors of the modern restaurant.
The unifying element throughout the musical is the use of traditional Korean samul nori music, which in this case is performed with improvised instruments, such as cutting boards, water canisters and kitchen knives.
Fruitarianism may be adopted for different reasons, including ethical, religious, environmental, cultural, economic, and presumed health benefits.
The advantage of the method is that the meat does not come into contact with the cooking liquid; in Poularde de Bresse en vessie, the juices from the chicken all stay in the chicken, and turn into a flavorful jelly if the dish is served cold.
Rather than rolling out the dough and pressing the cutter into the top of the dough, the cutting sheet is placed on the baking sheet, cutting side up.
The market of Japanese ingredients is also growing, with brands such as Ajinomoto, Kikkoman, Nissin and Kewpie mayonnaise, are establishing production base in other Asian countries, such as China, Thailand and Indonesia.
Splatter guards are generally circular, so as to fit the shape of a frying pan, and have a handle for ease of removal and safety.
Cookie cutters can also be used for shaping, molding, forming and cutting numerous other types of foods, including meat patties, pancakes, sandwiches and decorative embellishments for platters (for example, fancy-cut fruit).
In Ancient Greek pottery, small bowls, including phiales and pateras, and bowl-shaped cups called kylices were used.
Many foods can now be pureed more easily in a food processor; however, a manual method such as ricing is best for potatoes, which are starchy and become glutinous (in the sense of being glue-like or sticky, and not in the sense of containing gluten) when over-processed.
Early 2010 the DACA curriculum was approved and the Dumaguete Academy for Culinary Arts started the first Batch for the Culinary Arts Diploma on May 3, 2010.
Mustard oil refers to either the pressed oil of the mustard plant used for cooking or its pungent essential (or volatile) oil.
It is filled through a wider opening at the opposite end, rolled or twisted closed, and then squeezed to extrude its contents.
'fast-day capon'), a seafood salad Humor and ethnic dysphemism Humorous exaltation often takes the form of a dysphemism disparaging particular groups or places.
Boilers in power plants are traditionally heated by the combustion of coal, but if cofiring were to be implemented, then the CO2 emissions would decrease while still maintaining the heat inputted to the boiler.
Within health care, the chef is often responsible for the development of variations on mainstream meals, to fit different types of diets while still having an appetizing meal.
Though the Bocuse d'Or of France is frequently referred to as the culinary equivalent of the Olympic Games, it is biennial and not separated by an olympiad, i.e.
The bread is at the center of the Christian Eucharist; it is "sacramental bread", "singing bread", or "angel's bread".
⁠1/2⁠ UK salt spoon is an amount of space that can accommodate 15 British imperial minims (⁠1/4⁠ British imperial fluid drachm or ⁠1/32⁠ British imperial fluid ounce; about 14·41 US customary minims (0·24 US customary fluid dram or 0·03 US customary fluid ounce) or 0·89 millilitres) of liquid.
To become a global cuisine, a local, regional, or national cuisine must spread internationally and be commonly served around the world.
Sautéing, stir-frying, pan frying, shallow frying, and deep frying are all standard frying techniques.
Microgreens are vegetable greens (not to be confused with sprouts or shoots) harvested just after the cotyledon leaves have developed with one set of true leaves.
The method essentially combines pressure cooking with deep frying to pressure fry chicken that has been marinated and breaded.
This storage vessel is typologically similar to the Haltern cooking pot but differs in rim design from the classic Haltern 91.
The Asian Pastry Cup (APC) is an international pastry competition taking place every two years in Singapore.
Membership is open to women who have distinguished themselves in the respective fields with which Les Dames is concerned.
Alternating current When current varies, as it does in AC circuits, P ( t ) = U ( t ) I ( t ) {\displaystyle P(t)=U(t)I(t)} where t is time and P is the instantaneous active power being converted from electrical energy to heat.
In November 2022, Wendy's released the new peppermint Frosty for the holidays; this was the third new Frosty flavor released and temporarily replaced the vanilla Frosty.
One way is a combination of lemon juice and kosher salt, and another is a solution of 1:3 distilled white vinegar and water.
Keygoes was initially launched through Indiegogo campaign and quickly garnered attention for its unique use and design.
Even if the bacteria are killed they release heat-resistant spores that if they start to multiply become a threat.
The pronouncement referred to the differing opinion of Rabbi Moshe Heinemann (although without explicitly mentioning Rabbi Heinemann by name) as a minority opinion (Da'as Yachid) that should not be relied upon.
Now most recipes, for health reasons, call for lighter oils, even though none of the oils penetrate the turkey because of the heat.
Vegetarian cookery and advocacy After Pope and her family became vegetarian, she served as cookery teacher to the Vegetarian Society.
Here the chef is typically responsible for designing dishes and ensuring that the local kitchen staff can create/prepare them to an exact standard.
The reservoir is vacuum insulated so that the water in the reservoir, once brought up to temperature, remains at 110°C.
"Welsh" was probably used as a pejorative dysphemism, meaning "anything substandard or vulgar", and suggesting that "only people as poor and stupid as the Welsh would eat cheese and call it rabbit", or that "the closest thing to rabbit the Welsh could afford was melted cheese on toast".
Julia is an American comedy drama television series created by Daniel Goldfarb that premiered on HBO Max on March 31, 2022.
Hexamine is an efficient and stable fuel, making it ideal for portable stoves due to its high energy density and ease of ignition.
In February of 2024, the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas approved the restructuring plan.
A previous effort to fabricate the optic from fused quartz had failed, with the cast blank having voids.
He worked with the design firm Smart Design to create the initial products in the line, including the Swivel Peeler, and Oxo continued to collaborate with Smart for many years.
Additional ingredients can include half and half, beer, bread crumbs, butter, eggs, onion, onion juice, garlic, vegetables such as broccoli, cauliflower, carrot and celery, spices and seasonings.
High-end ovens sometimes offer optional pizza stones that are specifically designed for each oven model and may include a specialized heating element.
Simmering – foods are cooked in hot liquids kept at or just below the boiling point of water, but higher than poaching temperature.
Although the terms "cupbearer" and "butler" are sometimes used interchangeably, they were two distinct roles at the coronation feast.
Storage and quality One of the main challenges of once-a-month cooking is maintaining food texture and flavor over several weeks of storage.
In general, it works best for cooking whole chickens, turkey, and leaner cuts of lamb, pork, and beef.
Chemical composition Marula oil contains a large proportion of monounsaturated fatty acids which make the oil very stable.
Many restaurants serve chile con queso with such added ingredients as pico de gallo, black beans, guacamole, and ground beef or pork.
CREA also offers online courses on culinary techniques such as the sous-vide method, mixology, butchery, food safety, and food quality.
Charles Darwin commented on this phenomenon in The Voyage of the Beagle: "Having crossed the Peuquenes (Piuquenes), we descended into a mountainous country, intermediate between the two main ranges, and then took up our quarters for the night.
Poland and Lithuania The cupbearer (Polish: cześnik, Lithuanian: taurininkas) was a court office in Poland and Lithuania until the end of the 13th century.
Many Chinese traditional regional cuisines rely on basic methods of food preservation such as drying, salting, pickling and fermentation.
Some claim that because the flame is above the food, and since hot gases rise, it cannot significantly affect the flavor.
As with many other dishes covered in light-colored sauce, a sprinkle of paprika or cayenne is often added as decoration.
Description The genus Camellia includes several commercially important species - Camellia oleifera is grown mainly in China for vegetable oil.
This method of cooking is important in areas where water supplies are limited or where public water is not yet available.
A hot plate or hotplate is a heated flat surface on a stove or electric cooker on which food may be cooked, either built into an electric cooker or kitchen stove, or portable, plugged into an electric outlet.
A dishcloth or dishrag, also known as tea towel, tea cloth (British English) or dishtowel (American English), is used in the kitchen to clean or dry dishes and surfaces.
Culinary names, menu names, or kitchen names are names of foods used in the preparation or selling of food, as opposed to their names in agriculture or in scientific nomenclature.
This has two main purposes: droplets of hot oil can cause dangerous burns if they land on the skin, and, if they land elsewhere, can cause stains.
Madison has won five James Beard Foundation Awards, including two for her 1997 cookbook Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone (one in 1998 - James Beard Vegetarian Book Award, and one in 2016 - James Beard Cookbook Hall of Fame).
This process dislodges the seeds and some amount of pith, so the juice must generally be strained before use, although some tabletop reamers include an integrated strainer.
It has two long handles, one with a perforated basket at the end, the other with a flat surface that fits into the basket.
The oscillations of the ions are the origin of the radiation ("thermal energy") that one measures in a typical experiment.
She writes for the Wall Street Journal Off Duty section as a feature food columnist and is the host of the Wall Street Journal Digital Network’s Cooking Confidential with Gail Monaghan.
Syrian and Lebanese in Canada's Arab diaspora prepare and consume hummus along with other dishes like falafel, kibbeh and tabbouleh, even among the third- and fourth-generation offspring of the original immigrants.
Background Chile con queso (also spelled chili con queso) is a part of the 20th century Tex-Mex and Southwestern cuisine.
This line of products was then completely redesigned and brought to a new standard through innovation.
Uses of a food mill include removing the seeds from cooked tomatoes, removing pulp or larger pieces from foods (creating apple jelly or any type of purée), and making mashed potatoes or spätzle.
As of the late seventeenth century, many offered a table d'hôte, a meal offered at a set price with no choice of dishes.
Origin of term The term soda jerk was a pun on soda clerk, the formal job title of the drugstore assistants who operated soda fountains.
Culinary uses Cheese sauce is commonly used as a dip for various foods, such as chips and vegetables.
This live competition pits national teams of pastry chefs against one another, culminating in a display of chocolate and sugar showpieces as well as pastry creations (examples include plated desserts and chocolate cakes).
The Center for Asian Culinary Studies (CACS) is a non-stock, non-profit culinary school located in San Juan, Metro Manila, and in Davao City, Philippines.
In order to establish a fresh beginning in the New Year, families must be organized both within their family unit, in their home, and around their yard.
Pacific and Madagascar Earth oven cooking was very common in the past and continues into the present – particularly for special occasions, since the earth oven process is very labor-intensive.
She has also written for Martha Stewart Living, Bon Appetite, Diversions, Kiplingers, Garden Design, Kitchen Garden, Cooks, Vegetarian Times, Metropolitan Home, East-West Journal, the Los Angeles Times, Home and Garden, and the International Slow Food Journal.
The word's early origins can be seen in the Latin word 'culter' (knife), still retained in the agricultural tool of a coulter.
This specialized tool is more commonly found in professional bakeries than in homes that only do light or occasional baking.
Neri became the Executive chef for the Obicà group restaurant based in the Flatiron District, Manhattan in 2014.
Leaving a lid ajar can create some similar effects and requires less effort, although it can be difficult to establish how open it should be to release a desired amount of steam, and the steam is released unevenly.
Marula oil is used in diets, especially for people of the Inhambane Province in Mozambique, Owamboland in north central Namibia, Northern KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa and the Zvishavane district of Zimbabwe.
Taking pity on him she baked him some cakes into which she had hidden money, but he failed to notice this and sold the cakes for a pittance.
Also, plastic is used for some young children's cutlery that is often thicker and more durable than disposable plastic cutlery, often encountered in the early years of primary schools.
A diffuser, a circular utensil placed between the tagine and the flame, is used to evenly distribute the stove's heat.
In examining bowls found during an archaeological dig in North America, the anthropologist Vincas Steponaitis defines a bowl by its dimensions, writing that a bowl's diameter rarely falls under half its height and that historic bowls can be classified by their edge, or lip, and shape.
post–1998 From 1998, World Kitchen (Later Corelle Brands, then Anchor Hocking) used the Corning soda–lime formulation at their plant in Charleroi, Pennsylvania.
Made from precious metals and porcelain, they resembled a coffee pot with a hole in the top where a molinillo or swizzle stick (molinet) could be inserted and used to froth the drink.
The meat should be allowed to "rest" for a suitable amount of time (depending on the size of the cut) before being served.
The arrangement of dishes in the Livre fort excellent is very similar to that of the menus in the Ménagier de Paris, written 150 years before the Petit traicté.
History According to the fourteenth-century household book, Le Ménagier de Paris, which does not include a recipe for the dessert, darioles were served at weddings.
The hiring of a private chef has been popular for some time but was traditionally reserved for the wealthy and therefore broadly inaccessible to most of the population.
History Günther Sanin's vision of an international culinary academy in the Visayas goes back to the late 1990s when he started to support several Restaurants and Resorts to achieve international kitchen standards.
in 2001, the Pyroceram-based line of CorningWare was reintroduced there in 2008 as CorningWare StoveTop.
'potato trout') in Catalan cuisine, a potato omelette: "if you don't catch a trout, you've got to have something more humble for dinner -- something to pretend is a trout".
Means of compensation include extending cooking times or using a pressure cooker to provide higher pressure inside the cooking vessel and hence higher temperatures.
Various additional ingredients are used in its preparation, and various types and styles of cheese soup exist.
Toasting forks continued to be an important utensil in the early American kitchen of the 1800s, when activity centered around the cooking fireplace.
As of 2016 4,000,000 hectares (9,900,000 acres) of oleifera forest centered on the Yangtze river basin in Hunan, Jiangxi, and Guangxi produces 0.26 million tons of oil.
Corn pudding (also called pudding corn, puddin' corn, hoppy glop, or spoonbread) is a creamy dish prepared from stewed corn, water, any of various thickening agents, and optional additional flavoring or texturing ingredients.
Applicants do not need to have any prior kitchen experience, but a high school diploma and the ability to read, write and speak English is required.
A fish slice is a kitchen utensil with a wide, flat blade with holes in it, used for lifting and turning food while cooking.
It is a common tool in kitchens in the Netherlands and available in many kitchen stores and supermarkets — although this may vary by region.
Reception The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 93% approval rating with an average rating of 8.0/10, based on 44 critic reviews.
A combination hinged gridiron and spider was developed and patented in 1836 by Amasa and George Sizer of Meriden, Connecticut.
Historically, vla (a popular dairy product with the consistency similar to custard or yoghurt) was sold in long glass bottles.
Ron Popeil, inventor of the Ronco "Showtime" rotisserie oven, claimed that 6 rpm is an ideal speed for cooking a variety of food.
Shirley trained as a patternmaker and designed the inverted oversized 'beanbag' containing recycled polystyrene chips in a polyester-cotton fabric bag and lid within a corrugated cardboard box and personally marketed it across Zululand between 1976 and 1980.
The website's critics consensus reads, "Sarah Lancashire inhabits Julia Child with infectious joie de vivre in this appetizing valentine to the iconic chef." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 76 out of 100 based on 20 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
For centuries, much of the European diet depended on dried cod—known as salt cod, bacalhau (with salt), or stockfish (without).
The company is known for producing pressure fryers, licensing "Genuine Broaster Chicken", and operating a branded food program, "Broaster Express".
Some finds with pitched rims indicate that perishable goods were sealed in these vessels, covered with parchment, leather, or similar materials.
Criticism The dipper well has been criticized in the United States as wasteful since on average it pumps 30 to 60 US gallons (110 to 230 L) of water an hour and is normally left running continuously.
The time taken for the center of food to reach the target temperature depends on the initial temperature, the thickness and shape of the food, and the temperature of the bath.
In Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island, there are uses of the measure gill, with Israel Hands drinking a gill of brandy in the chapter "I Strike the Jolly Roger".
Other common uses include mashing pumpkins and rutabagas for soup, making hummus, guacamole, baking mix, egg salad, or even purées (depending on the fineness of the ridges).
After research by Kim Deok-su, a member of the samul nori band, Nanta premiered in October 1997 in Hoam Art Hall in Seoul.
Some inedible rendering is done using a wet process, which is generally a continuous process similar in some ways to that used for edible materials.
The blending of fat into flour at this stage impacts the amount of water that will be needed to bind the pastry into a dough.
Oil analysis of cultivated varieties showed : ~76-82% oleic acid; 5-11% linoleic acid; 7.5-10% palmitic acid; 1.5-3% stearic acid - the ratios are similar to that found in wild oleifera.
They are typically baked simply with butter until the whites have set and the yolks are thickened, and are usually served in the dish in which they were baked.
This method of preserving food is commonly used in food catering and, recently, in the preparation of "instant" foods, as it ensures the safety and the quality of the food product.
She also began to revise and expand The Slovene Cookbook, including updates on food storage and preservation as well as many more recipes.
Additional patterns have been created specifically for this market, including Bliss, Blue Elegance, Cool Pansies, Country Rose, Dainty Flora, Dandy Blossoms, Elegant City, European Herbs, Herb Country, Lilyville, Lush, Petite Trio, Plum, Salad Seasons and Warm Pansies among others.
Kitchen ventilation is the branch of ventilation specialising in the treatment of air from kitchens.
All six units are the traditional British equivalents of the US customary cup and the metric cup, used in situations where a US cook would use the US customary cup and a cook using metric units the metric cup.
Notable alumni Angie Mar Antonia Lofaso Bobby Flay, alumnus of the 1st class in 1984 Carla Lalli Music Chris Morocco Christina Tosi Dan Barber David Chang Gilat Bennett Kate Williams Lara Trump Lee Anne Wong Serge Madikians Travis London Wylie Dufresne References External links Official website
Bundt pans, angelfood cake pans, and springform pans can be substituted for purpose-made timbale bakeware.
rendering industry, with their personal backing and/or direct participation in the rendering industry.
General overview The term is descriptive of the overall size and proportions of the tool, and not the materials it may be made of, though most mallets have striking faces that are softer than steel.
Research and development was a continuous process of trial and error, including experimentation carried out by Minami's wife Fumiko.
Trained kitchen staff was essential to the birth of haute cuisine in France, which was organized at the turn of the 20th century by August Escoffier into the brigade de cuisine.
They believe she has the power to keep roasts from burning, pots from boiling over, and sauces from spilling.
The Kitchen God was originally believed to have resided in the stove and only later took on human form.
Refinement then alters the appearance, texture, taste, smell, or stability of the oil to meet buyer expectations.
See also Fish knife Fish fork References Further reading Rabinovitch, Benton Seymour; Macapia, Paul, eds.
Grégoire de Fournas de Brosse (French pronunciation: [ɡʁeɡwaʁ də fuʁnas]; born 19 March 1985) is a French politician who represented the National Assembly Party in the National Assembly from 2022 to 2024.
She has been named one of the "Top 25 Wine Innovators" and she has been an invited speaker at Must Summit, Master of Wine Symposium and the American Society of Wine Educators, Decanter Wine Encounter, the Smithsonian Institution and the Vancouver Playhouse among others.
In 2007 Enologix made the first Classification of Napa Valley American Viticultural Areas-to TASTE³ which brings together more than forty of the most compelling writers, thinkers, chefs, winemakers, journalists, artisans, and executives as speakers.
After his death his descendants returned to Coquimbito to continue the work of Don Felipe and expand the business, guided by Doña Ernesta and her sons Francisco, Italo and Oscar.
Biography William Macarthur was born at Parramatta in December 1800, the fifth son of John and Elizabeth Macarthur, pioneers of the Australian wool industry.
The grapes used in the making of base wine are picked when they are green, so that the grape skins do not break during handling and release as little phenols as possible.
The pectin content of grapes increases steadily throughout ripening, reaching levels of about 1 g/L, although it varies by varietal and pre-fermentation handling processes.
As such, Veronese's depiction of the crowded banquet-scene that is The Wedding Feast at Cana is meant to be viewed upwards, from below – because the painting's bottom-edge was 2.50 metres from the refectory floor, behind and above the head-table seat of the abbot of the monastery.
He has been featured in local publications including Philadelphia Inquirer, Philadelphia Magazine, and Philadelphia City Paper for his work in wine education and writing.
If the newlyweds were married before, the seudat nissuin lasts three days instead of seven, and the blessings are only recited after the first day's meal.
Even if the must is cooled back down, fermentation will be very difficult to restart due to a chemical compound released by the dying yeast that serves as an inhibitor to the growth of future yeast cells in the batch.
He then went on to marry Elisabeth Wolfinger (4 March 1870 – 15 August 1948) on 3 June 1901 and they had another five children together.
'wedding feast' or 'marriage supper') is a seudat mitzvah that observant Jews eat after a Jewish wedding.
DMDC is also used to stabilize non-alcoholic beverages such as carbonated or non-carbonated juice beverages, isotonic sports beverages, iced teas and flavored waters.
A typical Campden tablet contains 0.44 g of sodium metabisulfite, plus filler; eight of these are equivalent to one-half level teaspoon (2.5 mL) of sodium metabisulfite.
Peter soon dropped out of school "ostensibly to be some support to my recently widowed mother," he says.
Marriage and issue Natalia met Gerald Grosvenor, Earl Grosvenor, at a ball at Blenheim Palace in 1977.
He studied at Marlborough College in Wiltshire and learnt about vine-growing and winemaking on the European mainland.
Grapes had been grown in the Mudgee area by three German families, including that of Adam Roth, as early as 1858.
External links Brix to Specific Gravity Table Brix, Specific Gravity & Sugar Conversions Brix, Plato, Balling, Specific gravity
and the Yield-Book & Citigroup’s Global Fixed Income Index Business from Citigroup, making FTSE Russell the largest Index Company in the World with ca $15 Trillion of Assets under benchmark.
Catherine however was able to sell the glass tumbler for a shilling to a customer, who purchased it as a memento.
It is a common misconception that Campden tablets can be used to halt the ferment process in wine before all the available sugars are converted by the yeast, hence controlling the amount of residual sweetness in the final product.
Rosetti notes that Scarlat was an object of admiration by other prisoners, and, increasingly, by the "foreign officials" who oversaw his imprisonment, since he mostly focused on educating himself and others.
According to Dave McIntyre for the Washington Post, as a consulting winemaker, by 2019 she had "crafted some of Napa’s most touted, and most expensive, cabernets," noting her cabernet vintages for Scarecrow.
Swedish-based commentator René Kieffer suggests that the evangelist "probably includes what [had] happened in Cana" among these signs.
The Prosecco Project In December 2023, Ziraldo launched his Prosecco wine made from single-vineyard in the ‘Al Canevon’ Estate in Conegliano Valdobbiadene which lies in hilly countryside situated 50 km from Venice and around 100 km from the Dolomites.
Unlike the German designation Trockenbeerenauslese (TBA), QGN is no official designation, but it could be thought of as the Alsatian equivalent of a high-grade TBA.
The family of Palomino's in-laws, the Vergaras, were distantly related to the Nocedal family; the Nocedals, the Vergaras and the Palominos maintained family relations.
In what was described as an amicable split, Jackson agreed on a severance of US$400,000 (equivalent to $985,736 in 2025), plus $10,000 a month while Steele trained his successor.
Biography After the revocation of the edict of Nantes, Pierre Joubert (Jaubert) went into exile at the age of 24, leaving La Motte-d'Aigues to reach Rotterdam in the Netherlands.
In 1847 he established Pewsey Vale winery in Eden Valley, the same year Jacob's Creek winery was established in the neighbouring Barossa Valley, with substantial cellars, and Pewsey Vale clarets, burgundies and hocks achieved considerable success.
He started an oenology laboratory at the Gironde Chamber of Agriculture with Jacques Blouin in 1967.
He sent plants to James Backhouse which are now in the Herbarium at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew and the British Museum.
The Stymie line, the reserve wines, took its name from the horse his father supposedly bet on and ended up winning big, funding the family's move from New York City to San Francisco.
Galets roulés are components of the terrain, or terroir, and a distinguishing feature of many of the vineyards in the Côtes du Rhône AOC and more specifically Châteauneuf-du-Pape AOC and other top wine-producing areas in the regions such as Gigondas AOC and Vacqueyras AOC.
Walter Frick (born 4 July 1956) is a politician from Liechtenstein who served in the Landtag of Liechtenstein from 2021 to 2025.
He joined Mouton Rothschild Group in the early 1980s, becoming technical director in 1984 and finally group managing director.
"Roth, Adam (1827–1898)", in Australian Dictionary of Biography; first published in hardcopy of Australian Dictionary of Biography, Volume 11, Melbourne University Press, 1988.
Mead This term is also used by meadmakers for the unfermented honey-water mixture that becomes mead.
Marilyn Monroe was one of the House's supporters, rumoured to have kept a month's supply of champagne in her kitchen.
Benefits Depending on the varietal, the process of maceration can help bring out many flavors in the wine that would otherwise be lacking.
He and Kaiser have been credited with starting the first winery in Canada since Prohibition as founders of Inniskillin Winery in Niagara, Canada.
Masurel was an independent director of the Société des bains de mer de Monaco since 1994, and was named CEO of the gambling group in 2011.
He made the Roma district renowned throughout Queensland for the excellence of its grapes and its wines.
Pectins are structural molecules in the cell walls of fruits which have the important function of 'gumming' plant cells together.
As yeast cells die, enzymes within the cells begin autolyzing by breaking down the cell, including the amino acids.
Wilbraham Harley Young (1856 – 19 January 1887) died at Burketown after being thrown from a horse; subject of stained-glass window.
At the hotel, Rothschild hung a pastel by de La Tour, which he bought for $120,000 at the Jacques Doucet sale in 1912.
Hess matched the Allied Domecq offer, adding a special dividend to the deal, and purchased the company for a market valuation of $103 million USD.
In 2022, the San Francisco Chronicle described her as a member "of an elite order of Napa winemaking consultants" along with Philippe Melka, Mike Smith, Andy Erickson, Aaron Pott, Julien Fayard, Jean Hoeflinger, Sam Kaplan, Tony Biagi and Heidi Barrett.
He took the firm from £800 million to £14 billion in value during his tenure and was ranked as one of the best 100 CEOs in the world in 2017 by the Harvard Business Review.
A typical path for a young man from a well-off family would have been studying law, most likely in Seville, but there is no confirmation of Palomino graduating either in the early 1920s or at any other time.
Academics, such as Roger Boulton at UC-Davis, would question the methods Enologix uses and whether they actually work because Enologix has not publicly released their data and exact details of measurements.
Polyphasic taxonomy of acetic acid bacteria: An overview of the currently applied methodology, 2008 Int.
In 2008, Ziraldo was awarded the Premio Masi by his peers in Verona, Italy, and the Folio D’oro in Friuli, Italy in 2010.
In 2005, Mondavi and his younger brother Peter made wine together for the first time after their feud.
Reception In 2016, the Bettane & Desseauve wine guide gave Château des Jacques 3 stars, stating "A viticulture respecting soil life, a meticulous vinification and a balanced ageing.
He entertained eminent scientific men who visited the Colony and bore the reputation of a cultured gentleman.
Career In 1862, Bundschu immigrated from Mannheim, Germany to San Francisco, California and was employed in the produce business.
As at 2020, his Romavilla Winery continues to operate and is listed on the Queensland Heritage Register.
Awards and recognition voted Best 2006 Ideas by Business Week Criticisms of Disruptive New Model Enologix solution was disruptive.
Other genera, such as Gluconobacter, do not oxidize ethanol, as they do not have a full set of Krebs cycle enzymes.
Another potential cause is a combination of lack of oxygen and yeast nutrients found in the lipids suspended in grape solids.
Macarthur was a competent botanist, horticulturist and agriculturist, and his operations helped to make Camden Park celebrated.
For many years he was a large and regular exhibitor of wines at the Brisbane Exhibition, and winning many prizes.
In her last year on the council, she was the president of the Committee for Environment, Agriculture, and Management.
The word connotes or emphasizes the critical role that vineyard placement and maintenance has in the production of high-quality wine.
Without a job, he drove to San Francisco with friends and settled in Sonoma County in 1968, and from 1971 he worked as a tractor driver and field worker under vineyard manager John Rolleri at Chateau Montelena.
Most dioceses (over 70, as of 2004) require an initial face to face meeting with their parish deacon or priest at least 6 months prior to the wedding, with a growing trend to ask couples to complete their preparation at least 6 weeks prior to their wedding.
The vines are ungrafted and planted on their rootstock in the Patagonian Desert which has little risk of developing phylloxera.
It is believed that the practice may also have been adopted because it was found empirically to give deeper and better colour to wines, which is due to improved co-pigmentation resulting from some components in white grapes.
Their particles each have an electric charge which is attracted to the oppositely charged particles of the colloidal dispersion that they are breaking.
The same while brewing beer at a brewery is known as trub – the same from secondary fermentation of wine and beer are the lees or equally, as to beer only, dregs.
They had three children: William Gilbert (12 October 1850 – 29 March 1923) born at "Pewsey Vale", married Mary Young Clindening (26 January 1854 – 7 May 1939) on 22 July 1879; further developed the Pewsey Vale Estate.
The Robert Mondavi Institute (RMI) for Wine and Food Science at the University of California, Davis opened in October 2008 in his honor.
In brewing and winemaking, free amino nitrogen (FAN) is a measure of the concentration of individual amino acids and small peptides (one to three units) which can be utilized by beer and wine yeast for cell growth and proliferation.
Carol Shelton Wines Shelton-Mackenzie Wine Company distributes Shelton's namesake label, Carol Shelton Wines.
She has also been a guest blogger for eRobertParker.com and The Huffington Post and has been interviewed by Winelibrary.com, The Leonard Lopate show and The Drinks Business and NPR Radio, Here and Now.
Initially, a young Paolo Antonio Ascierto, wanted to follow in his father's footsteps and become a carabiniere, but his father opposed the idea, insisting that he should have embraced the field of medicine.
His father was Lutheran Pastor Franz Julius Lehmann, and son may have joined father in the ministry but for Franz' sudden death in 1945, aged 55.
It then breaks down into small amounts of methanol and carbon dioxide, which are both natural constituents of fruit and vegetable juices.
(Fergusson became Professor of Tactics, Military Law and Administration at Royal Military College, Sandhurst, Berkshire).
Eric Asimov of The New York Times cited Twomey's 2009 Anderson Valley Pinot noir as "one of our favorites, bigger and softer but with both finesse and intensity." Personal life Baron resides in Napa, California, with his wife, Gwyneth; they have three children together who are now of adult age.
In the case of a stuck fermentation, a winemaker may wish to transfer the must to a second vessel and use stronger, more aggressive yeasts with high fermentation temperatures to re-initiate the fermentation process.
Personal He has competed in several editions of the Dakar Rally, finishing 82nd (out of 575 crew on the starting line) in the 2009 edition with co-pilot Jean-Louis Juchault.
In terms of internal power struggle, Palomino is currently considered a representative of the Carlist “old wave”, people whose elevation gave comfort to the Traditionalists, but who were ready to accept the new trends.
Torulaspora delbrueckii can be an opportunistic spoilage yeast for dairy products or soft drinks (fruit juices, etc.).
During this time the wine is deliberately kept in contact with its lees inside the bottle for a period ranging from a couple of months to several years.
He took 16 wickets at an average of 10.87, with figures of 6 for 64 and 6 for 5 against Tasmania in 1870–71.
Together with Peter Bittner and photographer Ján Štrba, they are the authors of three books: the first edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown with a compilation CD (2001), Koncerty mladosti ´76, ´77 – Československý Woodstock (2007), and the second edition of Pezinok – bigbeatown (2024).
Agoston Haraszthy incorporated the Buena Vista property under the name of the Buena Vista Vinicultural Society in 1863.
Mondavi married Blanche Hurtzig after his military service, and they remained together until her death in 2010.
Many winemakers also feel that better integration of fruit and oak character can be achieved if malolactic fermentation occurs during the time the wine is in barrel.
Bladder A bladder press consists of a large cylinder, closed at each end, into which the fruit is loaded.
Zinfandel Haraszthy planted Zinfandel grape vines in his vineyards and frequently used Zinfandel grapes in the production of his wines, both still and sparkling.
Pompeii is unusually well documented for a Roman city, and gives a valuable source of information about the professional opportunities of Ancient Roman women.
In February 1856 Young was appointed Draughstman with the Public Works Department, and by September 1856 was working as a surveyor.
Capoluongo, Vanna Chiarion-Sileni, Gabriella Farina, Antonio Marchetti, Daniela Massi, Alessandro M.
Career In 1968, he interned for a few months in the cellar of Stony Hill Vineyard in Napa Valley, owned by Fred and Eleanor McCrea, who were friends of his parents, living with writer M.
Mondavi graduated from Stanford University in 1936 with a degree in economics and business administration.
He functioned as ministerial commissioner responsible for the Ős-Dráva Program ("Ancient Drava Programme") regional development concept between 14 June 2014 and 15 June 2016.
Château des Fontaines Upon his 1895 marriage, his mother gifted him the Château des Fontaines in Gouvieux near Chantilly.
When these laws were officially recognized in 1984 they were among the strictest AOC requirements in the French wine industry.
He had considerable success with wines also, though according to one source, he treated winemaking more as a hobby than a business.
The addition of cultured yeast normally occurs with the yeast first in a dried or "inactive" state and is reactivated in warm water or diluted grape juice prior to being added to the must.
Originally a field worker for John Rolleri at Chateau Montelena, he gained experience in the Bordeaux region of France and was mentored by the likes of grape geneticist Professor Harold Olmo, and winemakers Jean-Claude Berrouet and Justin Meyer.
Domaine de la Tour du Bon Domaine de la Tour du Bon is located atop a limestone hill in Le Brûlat du Castellet, in the northwest of the A.O.C.
Along with his wife, Jill Matthiasson, he co-founded Matthiasson Family Vineyards in Napa Valley, California in 2003.
While the other properties were sold not long after his death, Chateau Latour stayed within his family till 1963.
Politics In September 1878 Young was elected a member of the Legislative Council but resigned in June 1880 to take a trip to England.
Winemaking and philosophy Baron has been outspoken on the influence of terroir, the emphasis on vineyard selection, fruit maturity, and other factors in creating Silver Oak's distinct style.
The typical wine grape will have anywhere from 22 to 1242 mg of nitrogen/liter derived from free amino acids.
Zsolt Tiffán (23 August 1965 – 12 April 2025) was a Hungarian winemaker and politician, member of the National Assembly (MP) for Siklós (Baranya County Constituency VI) from 2010 to 2014, and for Orosháza (Baranya County Constituency IV) from 2014 to 2018.
Media outlets also reported that Edwards was being investigated by the Department of Finance over the employment, in his parliamentary office, of an executive of a company he chaired before entering parliament.
From 1994 Klaß served as a Member of the European Parliament for Rhineland-Palatinate, representing the conservative German Christian Democratic Union, part of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Permission can be granted habitually, for as long as the situation that occasioned the granting of permission continues (e.g., the priest is an alcoholic).
It is known that at the moment of takeover in 1957 Palomino was a “jefe regional de Sevilla”, which probably stands for leadership in Western Andalusia; Valiente intended to nominate him the head for entire Andalusia, which generated some dissent in the local Granada jeafatura.
"An early act of the new French Government" in November 1944, "was to restore to him both his property and his citizenship." He returned to Europe, spent some time in Portugal, before returning to his home at Castel Beau Cèdre in April 1946, where he lived until his death in 1947.
McClosky, of Enologix, has replied to this criticism by noting the scores aid the wine drinking consumer in knowing whether or not a bottle of wine is worth the price that they are paying for the wine.
Developed in 1991 by Patrick DuCournau, working with the exceptionally tannic grape Tannat in Madiran, the process gained usage in modern winemaking following the 1996 authorization by the European Commission.
purchased a West Kelowna vineyard in 1956 which Ben would later incorporate as Quails' Gate Estate Winery.
Château des Jacques is a wine producer located in Moulin-à-Vent, in the north of the Beaujolais region.
Vineyard ownership In 1716, Alexandre de Ségur bought Château Lafite and, following his death that occurred soon after, the estate passed on to Nicolas-Alexandre.
She and her siblings spent their childhoods with a half-acre vineyard in their backyard, and her father was a home winemaker and wine collector.
She sourced the organic fruit from her orchard and the Kiwi Growers Cooperative Society in Arunachal Pradesh.
Since 1994, he has owned Orfila Vineyards and Winery, an award-winning vineyard in the San Pasqual Valley, in Escondido, California.
Food Microbiol.Volume 163, issue 2-3, 204-213 External links International conference on acetic acid bacteria
Wedding at Cana also known as Wedding Feast at Cana and Le Nozze di Cana is an oil painting by Michael Damaskinos.
Some of My Best Friends Are Winemakers: A History of the Wine Industry of Mudgee, Hunters Hill, N.S.W.: Gilbert Wahlquist, 2008.
Some species are known as "killer yeast" that produce inhibitory levels of ethyl acetate and acetic acid that can kill off sensitive strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Saccharomycodes Schizosaccharomyces, the only wine yeast that reproduced by fission whereas most wine yeast reproduce by budding.
The deeper the vessel, the greater the proportion of grapes that could be exposed to an anaerobic environment caused by the release of carbon dioxide from the crushed grapes on the bottom.
Wine was being made at least as long ago as 4000 BC; in 2011, a winepress was unearthed in Armenia with red wine dated 6,000 years old.
He then sold La Motte to Pierre Joubert, a Huguenot settler, who went on to name it after his ancestral home in France.
During the 2010s he was one of the prominent figures of progressive views and politics in Greece as well as a founding member of the ecological organization Arcturos.
On 21 December 2004, archaeologists reported finding in Kafr Kanna "pieces of large stone jars of the type the Gospel says Jesus used when he turned water into wine".
In 2018, Stewart returned to politics following Clark's resignation from the legislature and ran to succeed her in a February 14, 2018 by-election in what is now Kelowna West.
A pioneer of aviation, this extraordinary man promoted the house by flying around the world in his own plane.
2011-2023 The Orange County Register reported in 2019 that Welch was primarily focused on Yount Ridge Cellars, a Napa Valley vineyard near Oakville, California.
The second bottling will then be half 3.5 years old and half four years old (the wine left in the last barrel at the previous cycle), for an average age of 3.75 years.
600–700 thousand poods were exported to various cities of the Russian Empire through the port and by rail.
In 2013, she took winemaking courses and attained all her business degrees after age 31 and giving birth to 6 children in 7 years.
Throughout the growing season, Enologix would test and track the developing components of the grapes and can use calculation to try and better gauge the optimal ripeness of the grapes to set an ideal time for harvesting.
He migrated to South Australia in 1839 on the Buckinghamshire and immediately erected his prefabricated two-roomed Manning cottage on an Adelaide allotment.
Other historical evidence from the Byzantine and Medieval periods show that Khirbet Kana was regarded as the true site of New Testament Cana from a very early period.
Boutaris died in Thessaloniki on 9 November 2024, at the age of 82, days after undergoing a hip operation.
The later Junta declaration protested the expulsions and maintained that Carlism would never bend to "any group of interest", which probably stood for supporters of Don Juan Carlos.
In New Jersey, Haraszthy became acquainted with the grape vines in Mészáros's nursery, cuttings of which Mészáros was then sending by ship to Agoston Haraszthy in California.
They were extremely influential on Australian wine, and caught planes from harvest-to-harvest, providing hands-on advice.
They are actively present in environments where ethanol is being formed as a product of the fermentation of sugars.
At Pitești and Râmnicu Vâlcea, Demostene gathered up survivors of the battle which had taken place on Dealul Spirii.
Mondavi selected Cliff May to design the winery building, which opened in 1966 and is now considered an architectural icon in the Napa Valley, with an expansive entryway arch and bell tower.
Other good sources are fresh apple cider and unpasteurized beer that has not been filter sterilized.
The growth of Acetobacter in wine can be suppressed through effective sanitation, by complete exclusion of air from wine in storage, and by the use of moderate amounts of sulfur dioxide in the wine as a preservative.
Piper-Heidsieck was acquired on July 8, 2011, by the French luxury group EPI (Entreprise Patrimoniale d’Investissements), controlled by the Descours family.
The third bottling will be an average age of 4.25 years (one half wine that was left over from the second bottling—average age 4.75 years, and one half wine transferred from the second barrel after the second bottling—average age 3.75 years).
Cliff Ohmart to co-author the influential Lodi Winegrower's Workbook: A Self-Assessment of Integrated Vineyard Practices.
He was state president of the South Australian division of the Liberal Party and a member of the Liberal Party Federal Executive and Finance Committee from 2007 to 2010.
In 1964 he became the political adviser to the Managing Director of the Adela Investment Company, the largest multinational development corporation for growing the Latin American economy.
In Paris he set up a large private hospital, known as the Rothschild Hospital, of which he was head physician.
Campden tablets allow the amateur brewer to easily measure small quantities of sodium metabisulfite, so they can be used to protect against wild yeast and bacteria without affecting flavour.
Upon taking over the Domaine in 1989, Henry worked with Thierry Puzelat, who served as lead winemaker.
Using grapes from both family vineyards, they produced one barrel of cabernet blend, which was sold for $400,000 under the name "Ancora Una Volta" ("Once Again") at the 2005 Napa Valley Auction.
During fermentation, the added oxygen can help maintain the viability of the yeast to minimize the risk of stuck fermentation and the production of undesirable sulfides.
Vineyards included in the domaine's holdings include: Grand Clos de Rochegrès, Clos du Grand Carquelin, Champ de Cour, La Roche, Clos des Thorins, La Rochelle and Côte du Py.
The day before his arrest by the Gestapo, he fled to North Africa, became a fighter pilot in the famous Lafayette Escadrille, and died in combat in 1944.
When De La Warr left Virginia the following year in order to recuperate from a bout of scurvy, Bohun accompanied him on the trip.
The smell of the wine cellar at Sebastiani triggered her interest in winemaking and she decided to study enology and received her degree in 1978.
She later joined FDP.The Liberals and was elected to the Grand Council of Geneva, serving from 2013 to 2018.
The length of time a wine spends in the barrel is dependent on the varietal and finished style the winemaker desires.
She supported the abolition of the stamp duty tax, which is required by Swiss companies when they issue shares or bonds to increase equity.
Torulaspora delbrueckii was formerly known as Saccharomyces delbrueckii or Saccharomyces rosei or Saccharomyces roseus, and the anamorph is called Candida colliculosa (for a complete list of synonyms, see CBS's website).
This Andalusian tradition is comparable in character to France's Beaujolais Nouveau: seasonal, unfiltered, and consumed within the same year of production.
He also served as chairman of the Rishon Lezion branch of the Association of colonies, branch chairman of the Association of Rishon Lezion, member of the Maccabi Eretz Israel, and was a member of an organization headquarters defense.
During Steele's tenure, Kendall-Jackson's annual case production soared from 35,000 in 1982 to more than 700,000 in 1991.
On this occasion, he brought out from France a bible in a loaf of bread, visible in the French Huguenot Memorial Museum in Franschoek, South Africa.
External links Ach Gott, wie manches Herzeleid, BWV 3: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project BWV 3 Ach Gott, wie manches Herzeleid English translation.
Governo is a winemaking technique reportedly invented in Tuscany in the 14th century to help complete fermentation and stabilize the wine.
Ascierto was heard in an official hearing at the Italian Chamber of Deputies, presenting data suggesting tocilizumab reduced COVID-19 mortality by approximately 22 % in clinical use, underscoring its potential benefit.
Stabilization As a complex chemical mixture dependent on the activity of microorganisms, wine can be unstable and reactive to changes in its environment.
In the 1490s, he had commissioned the Triptych of the Sedano family, a more traditional triptych also with donor portraits of himself, his wife, and a son (possibly grown up to be the wine-server here).
Symbolism The Wedding Feast at Cana is a painting of the Early Modern period (1453–1789); the religious and theological narrative of Veronese's interpretation of the water-into-wine miracle is in two parts.
Under French inheritance laws, vineyard holdings were often split until offspring owned no more than a single row of grapes, not enough to fill a barrel.
In 1991, she founded a medical communication company called Götz & Cie Cardio Diffusion, which she managed until 1996.
Having increased output in one year to 17,000 imperial gallons (77,000 L) this would rank as a very serious hobby.
In 2013 he was featured in a Grey Goose ad that focuses on the initial controversy of making vodka as a Maître de Chai, and the eventual acceptance of the practice in France.
The Marechal de Richelieu introduced the wines of Chateau Lafite to the royal court of Louis XV and spoke glowingly of the wine's invigorating benefits.
Léon studied oenology at Bordeaux University, where he was taught by Émile Peynaud, graduating in 1964.
Seeing the opportunity, they set out to produce premium varietal wines from premium grapes grown in the Niagara Peninsula.
Macarthur is commemorated in the genus Macarthuria Hugel ex Endl., also in the species: Cyathea macarthurii F.Muell.
Along with Kaiser, they worked together for 30 years to establish Inniskillin and put Canadian wines, which were virtually unknown at the time, on the world wine map.
Close to President Juan Perón since his days in the Soviet Union, Orfila was appointed Ambassador to the United States by the populist Argentine leader, back in power in 1973 after an 18-year-long exile.
In 2011, Ziraldo was asked to manage a Port winery in the Douro Valley, Portugal, under the brand Senhora Do Convento.
Curtis Alexander Reid (16 July 1836 – 1 July 1886) was an Australian cricketer and umpire who umpired the historic first Test match in Melbourne in 1877.
He succeeded Xaver Bargetze as a full member of the Landtag upon his death on 29 October 1913 and held this position until January 1926.
In his spare time, he enjoys spending time with his wife and two sons, skateboarding, and listening to punk rock bands such as Minutemen, Black Flag, Minor Threat, and Dead Kennedys.
He later moved his flock to a selection near Lyndoch, which he named "Pewsey Vale" and developed into an ideal country home.
The 10,000 residents of Qana are primarily Shia although there is also a Melkite (Greek Catholic) Christian community in the village.
He presided over the Piper-Heidsieck Champagnes for thirty-three years, balancing development imperatives with family sustainability.
His grandfather, Dick Sr., had moved to the Okanagan in 1911 where he started a nursery growing fruit and shade trees.
The flight model was subjected to the processes of qualification and certified by NASA for use aboard the International Space Station.
Vietnamese usage also includes related terms such as cà phê kho and colloquial labels likening the filter to a sock (for example, cà phê bít tất).
The device uses an infusion method for brewing coffee with a stainless steel filter and a ceramic pot.
On 8 July 1908, the first commercial paper coffee filter was a 94 mm round filter disk devised by the German entrepreneur Melitta Bentz.
The Büttner extraction method was boldly marketed claiming to be the world's best moka and coffee filter ("Der beste Mokka- und Kaffeefilter der Welt").
Silvia Pro (2020-present) In the Silvia's third decade, Rancilio introduced a new, larger version of the machine.
Kaffeemaschinen - Die Kulturgeschichte der Kaffeeküche [Coffeemachines - The cultural history of the coffee kitchen] (in German).
After the launch, Lavazza continued with the expansion of both the range of capsules and the range of coffee machines.
Advantages of pods include convenience and speed of preparation and easy cleaning, consistency of taste, and less waste of coffee grounds.
Awards and achievements In February 2006, the Flavia Fusion drinks station earned the Good Housekeeping Seal, which means that the product has a two-year limited warranty.
The pressure difference resulting from the Bernoulli equation is then not sufficient to influence the flow to such an extent that the liquid is pushed around the edge of the spout.
One benefit of paper filters is that the used grounds and the filter may be disposed together, without a need to clean the filter.
The mug's design came to be widely imitated by other manufacturers both within and outside the United States.
History In 1908, Melitta Bentz, a 35-year-old woman from Dresden, Germany, invented the first coffee filter, receiving a patent registration for her "Filter Top Device lined with Filter Paper" from the Patent Office in Berlin on 8 July.
Visual arts See also Cuisine of Eritrea Literature of Eritrea List of museums in Eritrea == References ==
Six years later, in 1958, the Carnation Company developed a product that easily dissolved in hot liquid because it replaced most of the milk fat with vegetable oil, and reduced the milk protein.
In his testing, the Silvia was able to steam 150 grams of refrigerated milk to microfoam at 60 °C (140 °F) in just 21 seconds, half the time required by the contemporary Gaggia Classic Pro (2019) in the same test (42 seconds).
Customers who participated in the coffee maker recall were shipped a replacement component which will help prevent the contents of a defective T-Disc from spraying if the T-Disc bursts.
Farsi ābrēz), from Middle Persian *āb-rēǰ, ultimately from Old Persian *āp- 'water' + *raiča- 'pour' (New Persian ریختن [rêxtan]).
Industry Sweden's coffee industry has an annual roasting volume of approximately 88,000 tonnes, accounting for about 5% of the European Union's total.
In 2015 Jarden was acquired by Newell-Rubbermaid, which changed its name to Newell Brands, the current owner of the Mr.
While originally a cheap way of preserving the coffee beans in the 1920s, due to the common use of low-grade Robusta coffee the process was also used to hide negative aroma and taste characteristics of the coffee.
The method spread in 20th-century Saigon and is associated with the city's Chinese Vietnamese community, including the Chợ Lớn area, where cloth-filter coffee was sold as a working-class street beverage alongside other brewing styles such as phin coffee.
Chicory is sometimes combined with coffee as a flavoring agent, as in the style of coffee served at the famous Café du Monde in New Orleans.
"The conditions are awful, much like battery chickens", said Chris Shepherd, deputy regional director of TRAFFIC in Southeast Asia.
Coffee culture in Sweden today Fika Fika is a well-established tradition within Swedish coffee culture, characterised by a designated break during which individuals consume coffee, typically accompanied by buns or pastries, in a social setting.
Another variant was the Arndt'sche Sturzmaschine (not to be confused with the Arndt'sche Caffee-Aufgussmaschine).
Some venues keep water and/or brewed coffee warm over a charcoal stove or similar heat source during service.
Danesi of Italy meanwhile has associated themselves with Caffitaly system brewing machines, selling in the USA through Boston King Coffee.
Eventually becoming head of Braun's design staff, Rams' influence was soon evidenced in many products.
In November 2024, the Federal Court of Australia dismissed claims brought by Douwe Egberts against Vittoria Coffee alleging passing off, misleading and deceptive conduct, and trade mark infringement.
See also Single-serve coffee container References External links A Modo Mio Lavazza: a casa come al bar
Cups do not feature strongly in the earliest pottery found in most areas; the wares were thick and heavy, as were the carved stone vessels found in several early cultures.
It is usually made of brass for better heat retention, and is attached by a plastic or wooden handle.
Etymology and inflection The word barista comes from Italian, where it means a "bartender" who typically works behind a counter, serving hot drinks (such as espresso), cold alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, and snacks.
As extraction time increases, the risk of unwanted solubles – often associated with overwhelming bitterness – being extracted also increases.
They fight to stay together, but they are separated and have to bear a very poor diet in very small cages.
A mug without a handle, i.e., a bowl or a beaker, is topologically equivalent to a saucer, which is quite evident when a raw clay bowl is flattened on a potter's wheel.
The cabaret services originated in France, where the tea drinking was not ritualized, and thus small-scale arrangements for one or two were appropriate.
In the 19th century, farmers in central Java started to brew and drink coffee from excreted beans collected at their plantations.
It was not until Renato, Alfonso's son, took over in 1946 that the Bialetti product line was narrowed down to a single product: the Moka Express.
Additional AeroPress accessories, such as pressure-actuated valve caps, reusable metal filters, cold drip adapters, and others, have been available from third-party manufacturers.
In fast pouring, the liquid flows out of the spout in an arc without dripping, so it is given a relatively high velocity with which the liquid moves away from the edge (see Torricelli outflow velocity).
The trial judge reduced the punitive damages to three times the amount of the compensatory damages, totaling $640,000.
The United States Barista Championship (USBC) is an annual American coffee-brewing competition designed to evaluate baristas on their skills in espresso-based drink preparation and service.
According to this analysis, the feminine form qahwah (also meaning 'dark in color, dull(ing), dry, sour') also had the meaning of wine, which was also often dark in color.
The stand is used to hold a coffee cup or coffee pot on its base, and the bolsita is suspended from the top of the chorreador stand, hanging above the container.
The sleeve was invented while Sorensen was driving his daughter Ryeder to school and spilled a cup of coffee in his lap.
These places became common in the 19th century specifically for enjoying caffè, while the habit of caffè drinking at home started at the beginning of the 20th century, when caffettiera machines (Mokas) became available to the general public.
Not all brands are available in all markets (for example, Kraft-owned Nabob T-Discs are only available in Canada, while JDE-owned Kenco T-Discs are available in the British Isles).
The reader will then interpret the patterns formed by the thick residue on the inside of the cup looking for symbols and letters.
Etymology The word coffee entered the English language in 1582 via the Dutch koffie, borrowed from the Ottoman Turkish kahve, in turn borrowed from the Arabic قَهْوَة (qahwa, 'coffee, a brew').
The size of many means that "vase" would be a more appropriate name, but "cup" has become established.
The small production quantity and the labor involved in production contribute to the coffee's high cost.
Brewing equipment and techniques Competitors may use any manual (unpowered) brewing device and technique of their choosing.
The team decided to continue with production in the United States, rather than moving to Mexico, as was their initial plan.
The new product was marketed under the Carnation label with the brand name Coffee-Mate and released in 1961, shortly after the commercial introduction of Rich Products' CoffeeRich.
Past winners See also World Butchers Challenge References External links World Barista Championship official site
Equipment at long-running alley cafes typically includes a cloth filter attached to a metal ring and handle, a kettle for hot water, and a metal, enamel, or earthenware vessel for collecting and holding the brew.
Penelope Stock, a lexicographer, found that cups, mugs and glasses are "near-synonyms", although "sufficient differences" can be found that divide them into different groups.
"The ritual and sociability of Neapolitan coffee culture", Regiona Campania, https://cultura.regione.campania.it/en/la-cultura-del-caffe-napoletano Maltoni, Enrico; Carli, Mauro (2020) [2013].
While the company distributes brands under its own name, it also supplies coffee under other notable brands such as Shipley Do-Nuts and Bright and Early Coffee.
Many vegetarian dishes are available since a majority of the population observe fasting at some time during the year.
Coffee was in use in Istanbul by 1539, for a legal document mentions Ottoman admiral Barbaros Hayreddin Pasha's house had a coffee chamber.
That ruling ended the Senseo coffee pod monopoly, and following that ruling, practically every coffee vendor in the Benelux countries started production of coffee pods.
Cafe drinkware Cafes use various sizes of coffee cups to serve mochas, lattes, and other coffee drinks.
Historically, coffee houses have been places where people gather, chat, work, write (in particular, the writing of local newspapers), read (in particular, the same local newspapers that were written in coffee houses) and pass the time.
The company followed new technological trends towards continuous deliver brewing introduced by Faema in 1961.
The company also manufactured Europiccolas that were branded and sold as the first Olympia Cremina home espresso machines.
The benefit of this method is extremely low investment cost on equipment required to prepare decent coffee.
In 1936, the widely recognized cone-shaped filter paper that fit inside the tapered filter top was introduced.
It also offers Lungo, medium roast capsules that produce a longer (higher proportion of water) espresso, and the Monoarabica line, single-origin Arabica beans from six countries: Brazil, Guatemala, Ethiopia, Colombia, Costa Rica, and India.
Hot water is poured from a kettle or anything that can boil the water until the lower edge of the bag gets in contact with the surface of the coffee.
Stuttgart, Germany (originally: Munich, Germany): Parkland Verlag (originally: Blanckenstein Verlag).
In popular culture In the movie The Bucket List, billionaire health care magnate Edward Cole (played by Jack Nicholson) brings kopi luwak with him on all of his travels but is unaware of how the drink is produced.
Coffee endured a leveraged buyout and two significant changes in ownership before being acquired by Health O Meter Products, Inc.
In 1978, Arthur Eugster and his brother Markus founded the Frismag AG in Amriswil and began producing coffee machines.
In either system, only the water is ever in direct contact with the heating element, never brewing or brewed coffee.
Brewed coffee, if kept hot, will deteriorate rapidly in flavor, and reheating such coffee tends to give it a "muddy" flavor, as some compounds that impart flavor to coffee are destroyed if this is done.
Nespresso has claimed that it offers up to a 40% premium on the price of beans, and some 75,000 farmers from 12 countries are participating in the program.
General Electric announced that its new Café French Door refrigerator, due out in late 2015, will have a Keurig coffee machine built into the door.
This is the ISBN of the second edition (2020), however, the ISBN of the first edition (2013) appears to be the same.) Mani San Max, Isabelle.
Turkish coffee (aka Arabic coffee, etc.), a very early method of making coffee, is used in the Middle East, North Africa, East Africa, Turkey, Greece, the Balkans, and Russia.
Some modern machines also provide other hot drinks such as tea, espresso, lattes, cappuccinos, mochas and hot chocolate.
Additional companies that manufactured coffee vending machines in 1947 in the United States include the Manning & Lewis company, Knapway Devices and the Bert Mills Corporation.
The water in the jebena, along with the coffee grounds, is then boiled on a medium-sized fire made with hot coals on a fire pit on the ground.
In Italy, Giordano Robbiati applied a small yellow sticker bearing the Atomic trademark on a small copper and aluminium moka pot.
Brewing coffee in the jebena is also a distinctly social event, where during the time it takes to prepare the beans and brew the coffee, families will socialise.
1950s–1960s Three years later in 1950, the first version of the Kenwood Chef Kitchen machine was launched at the Ideal Home Exhibition.
The doughnut company and coffeehouse chain Dunkin' Donuts has been criticized for continuing to use styrofoam cups.
McDonald's Restaurants, also known as the McDonald's coffee case and the hot coffee lawsuit, was a highly publicized 1994 product liability lawsuit in the United States against the restaurant corporation McDonald's.
Eventually, licenses for pod technology were granted to an Italian firm and other developers, who created specific standards for proprietary technologies.
Breville markets its products worldwide using its namesake Breville brand, except in Europe, where the Sage brand is used.
Public coffee vending machines typically require payment, functioning as coin-operated machines, and some also accept bills and credit cards.
His cockiness provides a stark contrast to the humble obsessiveness of the other four personalities.
For a design piece that became popular post-war at a time of Modernism and precision manufacture, this juxtaposition of natural wood and the organic nature of a hand-tied knot with the laboratory nature of glassware was a distinctive feature of its appearance.
By adding the additional sugar to the beans it increases the effects of the Maillard reaction during the roasting process, thus giving the beans more of that distinct flavor.
The role of the sensory judge is to score the competitor solely on the quality of the beverage served and customer service.
Nespresso-supplied capsule bodies and perforated tops are both made of aluminium, while third-party capsules are made from a variety of materials, including plastic and aluminium.
In 2023 Nespresso introduced paper-based coffee pods in France and Switzerland; they can be recycled with biodegradable waste.
The Napier Vacuum Machine by James Robert Napier, presented in 1840, was an early example of the vacuum brewing process.
This method of production has raised ethical concerns about the treatment of civets and the conditions they are made to live in, which include isolation, poor diet, small cages, and a high mortality rate.
A food writer reviewed kopi luwak available to American consumers and concluded, "It tasted just like...Folgers.
The captured hot air causing mild micro-turbulences on the underside of the coffee grounds were said to help avoid clogging.
Four major companies dominate the Swedish coffee market: Gevalia, owned by JDE Peet's, based in Gävle, holds around 40% of the market share.
In 1903, that patent was bought by Desiderio Pavoni, who founded the La Pavoni company and began to mass produce the machine industrially, manufacturing one machine daily in a small workshop in Via Parini, Milan.
In Australia, Woolworths and Gloria Jeans promote and make their own capsules exclusively for the system, with the latter also selling Gloria Jeans branded machines.
Variants Some of the finely crafted coffee pots manufactured in the late 19th-century work on the same principle, including the Russian reversible pot aka Russian egg, and the reversible Potsdam cafetière aka Potsdam boiler.
In its most basic form, Persian Gulf or Arabic coffee has simple ingredients and preparation: water, lightly roasted coffee, and ground cardamom are boiled in a dallah for 10 to 20 minutes and served unfiltered in demitasse cups.
When one visits an Eritrean house regardless of whether they are served with food or not, they are always served with hot tea.
The production date for each Silvia machine is typically printed as a four-digit code in the bottom-right corner of the manufacturer's sticker concealed beneath the drip tray, or, on some early models, on the bottom of the machine body.
100 Jahre Melitta - Geschichte eines Markenunternehmens [100 years Melitta - History of a brand company] (in German) (1 ed.).
It was named after its manufacturer, Gottlob Widmann, although some early machines were delivered as "FK-1" (for filter coffee machine).
The shorter and lower heat roasting yields lighter-colored coffee beans, called biji kopi putih or white coffee beans.
Perfect Daily Grind, 2021-03-15, https://perfectdailygrind.com/2021/03/exploring-the-cuccuma-a-traditional-neapolitan-coffee-pot/ Mazzoleni, Martina.
The competition between two collectors for an especially valuable silver cow creamer is a plot-line in P.
According to Philips, by 2005 ten million machines and four billion pads had been sold worldwide, by and over 20 million machines by 2008.
Coffee is a brand of automatic drip-brew kitchen coffee machines and other kitchen appliances owned by Newell Brands.
The current models of the Anna and Anita (PL41TEM and PL042TEMD) include PID controllers to manage brew temperature and a pressure gauge to measure brew pressure.
Houseplant wants to expand into new product categories beyond cannabis-related items while highlighting the co-founders' connection to coffee culture.
Viewers are introduced into the elevation of the everyday drink, into a craft culture not unlike that of beer and wine.
Vietnamese companies sell an imitation kopi luwak, made using an enzyme soak which they claim replicates the civet's digestive process.
In 2011, he was named the Chairman of the Board of Directors for the International Housewares Association for the 2011/2012 term of October 2011 through September 2012.
Development and marketing The Moka transformed the Bialetti company into a leading coffee-machine designer and manufacturer.
A Ho Chi Minh City net-filter venue was included in a New York Times list of coffee addresses in the city.
A practice ground in Weggis was turned into a temporary 5,000-seat arena called the "Thermoplan Arena".
Unlike a standard percolator, the moka pot never sends brewed coffee back through the coffee grounds.
The machine forced water to flow over the coffee grounds at a high pressure, producing the 'crema' that is unique to espresso.
Others were also made of woods such as coconut, ebony or other hardwoods, or of ivory, bone, horn, or tortoiseshell.
This means that the low cost of acquisition for each coffee machine is illusory, since the costs of the capsules for it exceeds that of conventional coffee — sometimes several times — and can cost more than the machine itself in a short time span unless a refillable capsule is used.
In 1965, the company launched its first slicer, a highly popular product in Germany where sausage (wurst) and cheese are consumed as staples.
The chorreador can be made at home simply and cheaply with very basic carpentry and sewing skills, or it can be crafted from beautiful and decorative softwoods or hardwoods by an artisan.
Paper coffee pods can be functionally identical to plastic and metal coffee capsules, if the paper pods are individually sealed in separate bags.
An appeal in court changed this patent matter, and the new judgement was that the other coffee makers were infringing on the European patent in Belgium.
The coffee sleeve was invented in 1991 by Jay Sorensen and patented in 1995 (under the trademarked name Java Jacket), and are now commonly utilized by coffee houses and other vendors that sell hot beverages dispensed in disposable paper cups.
Piega, San Leo (Rimini), Italy / Crocetta del Montella (Treviso), Italy: Collezione Enrico Maltoni / Grafiche Antiga S.p.a.
Three years later in Milan, Achille Gaggia registered a patent to do the same, employing a hand-pulled, rotating piston.
sugar bows with highly decorative handles appear in 1750s (Shlosberg says the displacement started in the early 1770s) for a short time; sugar tongs with more plain designs appeared in the 18th century and gradually evolved into "bold, bad design" of the 19th century.
Similar systems In contrast to Nespresso system, which is also made by Nestlé and has Krups and De’Longhi as one of the major hardware vendors, the Dolce Gusto capsules are freely available in stores.
So, many caffetterie acquired cultural importance (like Caffè Greco at 84 Via Condotti, Rome; or Caffè Florian in Venice, both established after the mid of the 18th Century ) and became famous meeting points of artists, intellectuals, politicians, etc.
Habits changed; the old coffee culture declined; the epicurean coffee aficionado was less to be seen.
Like similar proprietary coffee-making systems, Caffitaly can be seen as an example of the razor and blades business model, in which the relatively low price of the coffeemaker is recouped through a higher profit margin on the coffee capsules it uses.
Housewares International Limited The company was founded in 1957 as Housewares International Limited, and imported homeware products.
Ancient mugs were usually carved in wood or made of pottery, while most modern ones are made of pottery materials such as bone china, earthenware, porcelain, or stoneware.
In the first stage, iper-infusion, hot water under pressure creates conditions that bring out coffee flavor and aroma.
It is commonly used in the coffee tradition of the Arabian Peninsula and of the Bedouins, and to a lesser extend in the Levant and North Africa.
However, in certain situations where advanced brewing equipment is involved, yields surpassing 22% can be achieved absent the characteristic bitterness.
Reports indicated that household appliances from De'Longhi, initially produced for the Ukrainian market, were redirected to Russia and sold through marketplaces and electronics store chains.
Recall On 9 February 2012 about 900,000 in Canada and 835,000 coffee makers the United States were recalled after reports of the brewers spraying hot liquid, coffee grounds or tea leaves onto people.
The use of a pod brewer eliminated most of the training required to operate conventional espresso machines.
Especially in France there was a craze for things Turkish: fashion plates depicted aristocratic ladies taking coffee while dressed as sultanas, attended by servants in Moorish costume.
Coffee extraction occurs when hot water is poured over coffee grounds, causing desirable compounds such as caffeine, carbohydrates, lipids, melanoidins and acids to be extracted from the grounds.
The Bauhaus interpretation of this device can be seen in Gerhard Marcks' Sintrax coffee maker of 1925.
These manufacturers were motivated to reduce wait times for café patrons, and wanted to produce machines that could brew coffee in large batches to be portioned later.
In 2019 Nespresso partnered with Swedish company Vélosophy to create a commercially available bicycle out of recycled Nespresso pods.
By 2001, gourmet coffee aficionados were using the internet to purchase green estate-grown beans for delivery by mail.
The Kenwood Chef's original designer, Kenneth Grange, was knighted in 2013 for his services to design.
The company is known for using its cryogenic patented coffee processing methods as a platform to partner with roasters considered part of the third-wave coffee movement, including Counter Culture Coffee, Intelligentsia Coffee & Tea, and Square Mile, the roasting company of James Hoffmann.
Coffee-mate is a lactose-free coffee creamer manufactured by Nestlé, available in powdered, liquid and concentrated liquid forms.
In 1967, the Boston, Massachusetts-based conglomerate Gillette Group acquired a majority share of the company.
Just below the upper end of this tube is a perforated metal filter "basket" to hold the grounds to be brewed.
Rancilio began collaborating with McDonald's in 2000, partnering in the development of the latter's McCafé initiative.
For the barista, there was no longer a need to pause between espressos as the boiler came back to temperature.
While most percolators use metal filter baskets the Neuerer Aromators used double-layered cross-slit porcelain filters similar to those in Karlsbad-style coffee makers, not requiring any paper ring filters.
The original use of pod machines in Italy was to relieve designated office personnel from the tedium of continuous espresso brewing for office staff.
The production of professional coffee machines is carried out in the historical site of Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
In the 2019 financial year, the group's turnover increased by 10 percent to almost 1.7 billion euros.
The technical judges are not served drinks, but score the competitor on items ranging from cleanliness to consistency of shot times.
The Muslims are concentrated in the eastern and western lowlands,& highlands whereas the Christians mainly inhabit the highlands.
Coffee cups and mugs may be made of glazed ceramic, porcelain, plastic, glass, insulated or uninsulated metal, and other materials.
European porcelain manufacturers encouraged the development of different sizes of cup, and shapes of pot, for tea and coffee services.
In 2023, the SCA updated the rules and regulations and now allow the use of infused and co-fermented coffees in baristas' routines.
The mesh piston normally does not compress the coffee grounds, as most designs leave a generous space – about 30 mm (1 in) – below the piston in its lowest position.
In August 2010, it was reported that Nespresso sales had been growing at an average of 30 percent per year over the previous 10 years, and more than 20 billion capsules had been sold since 2000 at a selling price equivalent to about US$0.43 to US$0.62 per capsule.
Still, for the first thirty years, few establishments could afford the expensive machines, and Pavoni and two other manufacturers—Victoria Arduino in Turin and San Marco in Udine—produced most machines for the small Italian market, relying on exports across Europe to remain profitable.
Hario has cone-shaped paper filter bag sizes "01" (for 1 cup), "02" (for 1–4 cups) and "03" (for 1–6 cups).
The Java Jacket first appeared at the Seattle Coffeefest in 1995 and Sorensen and his wife Colleen were overwhelmed with requests and orders to fill.
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
It has also been linked to workplace productivity, as studies suggest that regular breaks contribute to efficiency and well-being.
A demitasse (; French: "half cup"), demi-tasse, or espresso cup is a small cup used to serve espresso.
The company's primary product is single-serve flash-frozen coffee capsules, but it also offers a subscription service that delivers frozen capsules to customers regularly.
Other Used coffee grounds can be reused for hair care or skin care as well as in the garden as a compost and as biodiesel fuel.
"International Housewares Association for Retail and Wholesale Manufacturers and Buyers." International Housewares Association, 28 Feb.
The Rocky in particular is regarded as "revolutionary" in home espresso, becoming the standard home grinder "for the serious espresso nerd" through the next decade.
Unlike newer capsules and pods, this system consists of a single-use drip coffee filter placed over the cup.
He claimed that the original idea for Nespresso was bought by Nestlé in 1973, and did not come from Favre, though Nespresso denies this.
However, percolator enthusiasts maintain that the potential pitfalls of this brewing method can be eliminated by careful control of the brewing procedures.
The tea- and coffeepots are small (one pint in a service for two, so called tête-à-tête, half a pint in a solitaire service for one), the cups and saucers are frequently also smaller than the ones in the regular sets.
Tea-mate A Tea-mate powdered variety for whitening tea was also introduced in the UK in a jar as well as in other countries in sachets or cartons.
Gardening In gardens, coffee grounds may be used for composting or as a mulch as they are known to slowly release nitrogen into the soil.
Discs containing milk use UHT milk, not powdered milk, but are no longer available in the United States.
Preparation Arabic coffee is made from lightly to heavily roasted Arabica beans (165 to 210 °C (329 to 410 °F)) mixed with cardamom, and sometimes flavored with cloves or saffron.
At the USBC, competitors must make three courses of beverages within a fifteen-minute time limit and are judged by seven different judges.
The Italian Espresso National Institute recommends serving espresso in a white china cup holding 50−100 ml.
105: […] Das Interesse der "Porzellanfabrik Walküre" richtete sich dabei weniger auf das schmucklose Erscheinungsbild eines Porzellangegenstandes, sondern vielmehr auf den wortwörtlich verstandenen funktionalen Nutzen.
A similar concept using phase change materials, but integrated into the walls and bottom of a cup, had been invented by the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics in 2009.
The “most telling” moment in this process is “the ceremonial arrival of the Gaggia espresso machine” as the new centrepiece of the bar.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has stated that products with sodium caseinate may contain low levels of lactose.
Bunn, who designed his own versions of paper coffee filters, that had a flat bottom and fluted sides and pour-over drip coffee brewers.
The case concerned competition in the instant coffee market, including Vittoria’s 400 g freeze-dried product.
A garde manger (French: [gaʁd mɑ̃ʒe]) is a cool, well-ventilated area where savory cold dishes (such as salads, hors d'œuvres, appetizers, canapés, pâtés, and terrines) are prepared and other foods are stored under refrigeration.
After registering a trademark and purchasing an internet domain, Esch and Lefkow started producing Bacon Salt.
Examples include the European flat oyster, eastern oyster, Olympia oyster, Pacific oyster, and the Sydney rock oyster.
The National Hot Dog and Sausage Council (NHDSC) is an American trade association that promotes the hot dog and sausage industry.
See also List of egg dishes List of hors d'oeuvre List of smoked foods Food portal References Further reading Steven Raichlen (2010).
producers and brands of turkey ham include Butterball, Cargill, Jennie-O, Louis Rich, Norbest and Oscar Mayer.
Dietary exposure Nitroso compounds react with primary amines in acidic environments to form nitrosamines, which human metabolism converts to mutagenic diazo compounds.
Description In British and Irish cuisine, gammon is the hind leg of pork after it has been cured by dry-salting or brining, and may or may not be smoked.
Overview Since 1975, the company has grown from a neighborhood take-out shop in Greenwich Village into a nationally distributed specialty food brand.
To prepare the intestines as casings, they are flushed, scraped and cleaned with water and salt by hand or with machinery; today they are primarily machine cleaned.
With its wood-smoked flavour, lapsang souchong is also used as a spice for flavouring or seasoning foods.
As street food Prague ham is traditionally served in restaurants and from street vendors with a side of boiled potatoes and often accompanied by Czech beer.
In the 19th century, the word (sometimes extended to the phrase "gammon and spinach") had come to mean "humbug, a ridiculous story, deceitful talk" in Britain.
Similarly, in Islam, Jaʽafari Shia and Hanafi Sunni dietary jurisprudence prohibit consuming bivalves, including oysters, as it is makruh (highly disliked).
Along with hardtack and corned beef, salt pork was a standard ration for many militaries and navies throughout the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, seeing usage in the American Civil War, War of 1812, and the Napoleonic Wars, among others.
The term "Canadian bacon" is not used in Canada, where bacon made from pork loin is known as "back bacon" while "bacon" alone refers to the same streaky pork belly bacon as in the United States.
The meat is pressed and seasoned with powdered sweet peppers and fennel and encased in dried pig stomach.
Today, the meat is cured in brine for two weeks and placed in a smoker fed from beech and oak chips for about a week.
Saucisse aux choux (cabbage sausage), IGP Vaudoise sausage Ajoie PGI sausage Dry sausages Sausages, Fribourg sausage, often smoked "à la borne Neuchâtel sausage and IGP Neuchâtel sausage Payerne sausage Dry sausages made mostly from pork and/or beef, with garlic, pepper and herbs.
History Early history and founding In 1924, Harry Hoenselaar created a bone-in spiral-slicer that smoked and cooked a ham.
However, 'Canadian-style bacon' or 'Canadian back bacon' are terms used by the U.S.-based North American Meat Institute for an American style of smoked back bacon.
Ireland Not traditionally known for Ice sculpture, Ireland has produced some well respected sculptors, winning The International Ice Sculpture Festival in Jelgava, Latvia, in years past.
Pork or poultry sold in the US must be labelled as hormone-free and include a statement saying that federal regulations prohibit the use of hormones.
Les Trois Petits Cochons also known as Three Little Pigs is an American charcuterie company founded in 1975 in Greenwich Village of New York City.
In valence bond theory, it is described as a resonance hybrid with equal contributions from two canonical forms that are mirror images of each other.
In this process, fresh cabbage is fermented in a light brine, where the sugars in the cabbage are transformed by lactofermentation to lactic acid which gives the cabbage a sour flavour and good keeping qualities.
Zeeuws spek continues to be held in high regard as a Zeeland dish, though in Zeeland it is also used in fusion foods, such as the Dutch/Indonesian/Chinese fusion dish babi panggang.
Vegetarian bacon can also be made at home by marinating strips of tempeh or tofu in various flavorings, such as soy sauce or liquid smoke, and then either frying or baking.
Themes State of Bacon film In 2013, the Iowa Bacon Board in conjunction with Digital Cuvée, a production company founded by Jason Cook, set out to make a film entitled State of Bacon utilizing the festival as the centerpiece of the story.
Addition of maltose, cysteine and fructose to MRS is usually sufficient for cultivation of limosilactobacilli although some species, e.g.
Quenelles de brochet Lyon and Nantua are famous for their quenelles de brochet (pike quenelles), often served with sauce Nantua (crayfish sauce) or sauce mousseline (cream sauce) and run under a grill.
Limosilactobacillus is a thermophilic and heterofermentative genus of lactic acid bacteria created in 2020 by splitting from Lactobacillus.
I called my mom, because I wasn't sure, but I remember as a kid she chopped it up and put it in this casing..." Hmong Americans tend to make the sausage a foot or more long and very thick, then eat it fresh or freeze it to preserve it.
It is known for being the first brand of the company, that before its merger was best known for the Stiksy snacks.
In the fermentation of milk products, lactose is the predominant sugar which is fermentable, whereas in vegetables like sauerkraut and kimchi, glucose and fructose are liberated from the plant tissues and act as the primary carbon source.
Members of the genus are aerotolerant anaerobes or microaerophilic, rod-shaped, and do not form endospores.
It is then encased in natural intestine, usually together with a strip of fat, and smoked over a mixture of herbs including sage, bay laurel, thyme, terebinth, and myrtle.
For example, Parma ham, which has been produced without nitrite since 1993, was reported in 2018 to have caused no cases of botulism.
Common raw vegetables (in the culinary sense) used in a salad include cucumbers, peppers, tomatoes, onions, carrots, celery, radishes, mushrooms, avocado, olives, artichoke hearts, heart of palm, watercress, parsley, fennel, garden beets, and green beans.
However, the word prosciutto itself is not protected; cooked ham may legally be, and in practice is, sold as prosciutto (usually as prosciutto cotto, and from Italy or made in the Italian style) in English-speaking regions.
This pronunciation was used in the television series The Sopranos, and its use has become a stereotype.
Preparation The Goa sausage is prepared starting with large chunks of boneless pork that are sliced or chopped and heavily salted.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
Other chilis can be smoked and dried for chipotle pepper, such as the bell or serrano variety, but smoked red jalapeños are most commonly used.
The two famous types of Italian prosciutto crudo are: prosciutto crudo di Parma, from Parma, and prosciutto crudo di San Daniele, from the San Daniele del Friuli area, in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region.
Olive oil contains far more monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids, so this substitution purportedly creates a healthier product.
However, clear, transparent ice is a result of the freezing process and not necessarily related to the purity of the water.
In recent years, some commercial producers have begun using large gas dryers and artificial smoke flavoring, which expedites the drying process but produces a less flavorful chipotle.
Despite its high portion of daily fat value, pancetta has a lower fat content than other bacon products.
Safe levels of nitrate for various types of livestock are as follows: The values above are on a dry (moisture-free) basis.
Like bacon it must be cooked before it can be eaten; in that sense gammon is comparable to fresh pork meat, and different from dry-cured ham like jamón serrano or prosciutto.
Sodium content is often high, sometimes delivering over 40% of the recommended daily intake per 100 gram serving.
The Festival also has featured lectures about bacon, a bacon-eating contest, and live performances by entertainers.
This invention of a faux Polynesian experience is heavily influenced by Don the Beachcomber, who is credited for the creation of the pūpū platter and the drink named the Zombie for his Hollywood restaurant.
The council promotes July as National Hot Dog Month, with National Hot Dog Day falling on the third Wednesday in July.
More than 300,000 kilograms of ice are shipped in for sculptors to work on in the special tents and it runs until January 16, 2011.
Limerick ham (Irish: Liamhás Luimnigh) is a particular method of preparing a joint of ham within the cuisine of Ireland.
Texas In Texas, the hot link is typically prepared with beef, and is usually cooked over indirect heat.
Meat products Switzerland has a large number of regional meat products and specialties that constitute an important gastronomic heritage.
Pliante Thin slices of meat pressed together or folded, typically alternating in colour or texture, with fat layered between.
Pulsed electric field electroporation Pulsed electric field (PEF) electroporation is a method for processing cells by means of brief pulses of a strong electric field.
Hmong sausage (Hmong: hnyuv ntxwm hmoob) is a long thick pork sausage from Hmong culture seasoned with herbs like lemongrass and Thai chili pepper.
Stuffed into thinner casings and shaped into small sausages, it's called chipolata in French-speaking Switzerland.
History In an interview with ABC News, Esch and Lefkow stated that they came up with the original idea for bacon products and their first invention, Bacon Salt, while making a joke about the subject over a meal at a diner.
Typically appearing alongside hearty whole-grain breads, Tyrolean speck can also be seen in the company of shellfish, sometimes wrapped around scallops or rolled about breadsticks and served with lobster salad.
This was followed by the introduction of a sausage-links version in the USA in October 2020 and Canada in September 2021.
In March 1522, he was invited to partake in a sausage supper that Froschauer served to his workers–who, Froschauer later claimed, were exhausted from putting out the new edition of The Epistles of Saint Paul–and to various dignitaries and priests.
In the later nineteenth century the technique's origin was already attributed to the chef of the marquis de Brancas.
The US Food and Drug Administration published guidance about the control of nitrosamine impurities in medicines.
Of this common form, there are several notable dishes: Paupiette, French veal roulade filled with vegetables, fruits or sweetmeats Rinderroulade, German and Hungarian beef roulade filled with onions, bacon and pickles.
Speck can refer to a number of European cured pork products, typically salted and air-cured and often lightly smoked but not cooked.
Grisons Meat is described by 18th century travellers, in particular by Johann Gottfried Ebel who notes that "the air is so dry from Sils to St.
A similar process is followed in other Indian states and Pakistan with slight variations in ingredients.
In the dimethylphenol method, 1 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid (H2SO4) is added to 200 μL of the solution being tested for nitrate.
While another theory suggests the name came from a Turkish Cypriot street vendor called "Şef Ali" (Chef Ali), who sold a kebab called "Şef Ali kebabı,"(Chef Ali's Kebab), which eventually became "Şeftali kebabı" and then Sheftalia.
Only products which are the subjects of these evaluations are authorized to be used in commerce within the EU.
This process was later combined with pre-curing the food in salt or salty brine, resulting in a remarkably effective preservation process that was adapted and developed by numerous cultures around the world.
Tradition The 21st of December in the Basque Country is the day of Santo Tomás, during this day in all the cities you can see stalls of artisanal products among which, for being the typical food of the day, the talo, the chistorra and the cider or sagardoa as a usual accompaniment.
Sour and spicy sauces are served on the side, especially a Hmong sauce made with Thai chilies called "pepper dip".
A scallop is a common name applied to many species of marine bivalve mollusks in the family Pectinidae, the scallops.
The Danish farmers producing Danish Bacon and their co-operatives were represented by Danske Slagterier, whose UK subsidiary was the Danish Bacon and Meat Council.
Ice may be sculpted in a wide range of temperatures and the characteristics of the ice will change according to its temperature as well as the surrounding temperatures.
Smoked caviar Some caviars that are sometimes smoked include cod roe, which is common in Norway, mullet roe, and sturgeon roe.
They are also sometimes used to add flavor to a dish, such as grating smoked scallop over the top of a dish to finish it.
Huldrych Zwingli, who was present during the event, later defended the act by arguing that fasting should be a matter of personal choice, as the Bible does not mandate abstaining from certain foods during Lent.
Guanciale (Italian: [ɡwanˈtʃaːle]) is an Italian salt-cured meat product prepared from pork jowl or cheeks.
Production According to Lefkow, "spreadable bacon" came as a suggestion from customers after their success with Bacon Salt.
Similar dishes The Ashkenazi helzel bears a similarity to tebit, an Iraqi Jewish variant of hamin, which includes a whole chicken skin filled with a mixture of rice, chopped chicken meat, and herbs.
This guild system was eliminated by Napoléon Bonaparte around the time of the turn of the 19th century.
In the 18th and 19th centuries even urban inhabitants of Ukraine would keep pigs, and their pastures would sometimes be located in central parts of big cities, including Kyiv.
Common antimicrobial preservatives include nisin, sorbates, calcium propionate, sodium nitrate/nitrite, sulfites (sulfur dioxide, sodium bisulfite, potassium hydrogen sulfite, etc.), EDTA, hinokitiol, and ε-polylysine.
The term garde manger is also related to the cold rooms inside castles and manor houses where the food was stored.
In other high-profile classically influenced restaurants and hotels, the position pertains to the classical preparations, which often include pâtés, terrines and elaborate aspics.
Peameal bacon has been linked to pork packer William Davies and the Toronto-based William Davies Company, though it is uncertain if Davies or an employee invented the process, or if the company otherwise acquired it.
A typical Edwardian dinner might consist of up to four courses that include two soups, two types of fish, two meats, ending with several savouries then sweets.
Natural casings are made from animal intestines or skin; artificial casings, introduced in the early 20th century, are made of collagen and cellulose.
Salt pork is made by layering salt and thin layers of meat, then dousing it in a brine mixture once the desired size has been reached.
Aqueous smoke solutions can also be extracted into oil, spray-dried using maltodextrin carriers, or plated onto foods and food ingredients such as malt flour, yeast, or salt.
Celebrity Bacon Grill (purchased in February 2011) lists: Pork (64%), water, starch, pork fat, pork rind, salt, Milk Protein, Stabiliser (Sodium Triphosphorate), smoke flavour, sugar, preservative (Sodium Nitrite), Spice extracts.
reuteri, Limosilactobacillus pontis and other limosilactobacilli occur frequently in back-slopped cereal fermentations while Lm.
Though he himself did not eat the sausages, Zwingli was quick to defend Froschauer from allegations of heresy.
The company was founded by French chefs Alain Sinturel and Jean-Pierre Pradié along with their business partner Harvey Millstein.
On Thursday, February 19th 2026 the Washington Supreme Court ruled unanimously that Amazon.com must face lawsuits brought by families with relatives who took their own lives by consuming sodium nitrite they bought on the online retailer's platform.
Use Food The application of liquid smoke to food has grown to encompass a wide variety of methods employing thousands of commercial formulations worldwide.
In the United States, under the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the USDA, hormones are not allowed in hogs or poultry raised for food.
They have not been able to keep pace with Danish modernisation of the curing process and increasing centralisation.
A quenelle (French pronunciation: [kə.nɛl]) is a mixture of creamed fish or meat, sometimes combined with breadcrumbs, with a light egg binding, formed into an egg-like shape, and then cooked.
Dried fish most commonly cod or haddock, known as Harðfiskur, is a delicacy in Iceland, while dried reindeer meat is a traditional Sámi food.
Salt pork that contains a significant amount of meat, resembling standard side bacon, is known as "streak o' lean." It is traditionally popular in the Southeastern United States.
From 1997 the company became popular with promotions of tazos and cards as gifts in the products, based on popular franchises like Looney Tunes, Animaniacs, Pokémon, Naruto, and also originals like Dracomania and Mythomania.
The meat can be bovine, or sheep, goat, pork or game, among the latter the chamois and ibex are particularly appreciated.
As early as 500 CE, the Babylonian Talmud (Yoma 83b) recounts the practice of feeding sweet desserts to a person before the main course of a meal in order to revive his strength and increase his appetite (Aramaic: מגרר גריר).
The Zurich sausage affair was interpreted as a demonstration of Christian liberty and is considered to be of similar importance for Switzerland as Martin Luther's 95 theses in Wittenberg for the German Reformation.
It is made from smoked and spiced eggplant, grilled and then pureed, topped with cubes of sauteed lamb, previously seasoned and marinated.
The traditional means, referred to as Zheng Shan Xiao Zhong, is to entirely process the leaves within the smoke house, equivalent to a cold smoke, though most of the smoke flavouring is instilled during the final drying phase.
Smoking is the process of flavoring, cooking, or preserving food by exposing it to smoke from burning or smoldering material, most often wood.
Since the meat could not be refrigerated easily, its fresh consumption was limited to the time of slaughter.
Modern terrines do not necessarily contain meat or animal fat, but still contain meat-like textures and fat substitutes, such as mushrooms and pureed fruits or vegetables high in pectin.
The indoor withering is done with the leaves laid out on bamboo mats and turned at intervals, followed by a period of rolling to break cell walls and initiate oxidation.
The fruit kernel is hard, olate, yellowish brown, 1–1.4 centimetres (0.39–0.55 in) long, 1 centimetre (0.39 in) wide, and 0.5 centimetres (0.20 in) thick, with a dotted surface.
Salumeria Biellese is another salumeria in New York City that is well-known, and was established in 1925.
The tandoor is traditionally made of clay and is a bell-shaped oven, set into the earth and fired with wood or charcoal reaching high temperatures.
Nitrous acid selectively reacts with aromatic amines to give diazonium salts, which in turn couple with a second reagent to give the azo dye.
It is the company's first "end-to-end manufacturing facility" outside of the United States and began full-scale production in 2021.
However, when 10% of the meal is fat, the effect reverses, and ascorbic acid markedly increases nitrosamine formation.
At smoker temperatures hotter than 85 °C (185 °F), foods can shrink excessively, buckle, or even split.
In the past, terrines were under the province of professional charcutiers, along with sausages, pâtés, galantines, and confit.
It is the most common cut of bacon used in British and Irish cuisine, where both smoked and unsmoked varieties of bacon are found.
Consumption Goa sausage is a versatile food, being sold everywhere from street food carts to high end restaurants, being used in sandwiches, stews, fillings in breads, soups, or eaten alone as a side with rice.
Secondary binders Often, the only binder in a forcemeat is the physical structure of the protein used.
According to William Roscoe Estep, Zwingli already held Reformation-oriented convictions for some time before the incident.
The association has developed a point system for judging the quality of ice sculptures created in timed competitions and certifies competition judges.
The aroma of the dry leaves is described as having intense empyreumatic notes reminiscent of bacon while the liquor is known for its lingering smoky flavour.
Borhani Borhani is a sweet and spicy drink from Bangladesh usually consumed during weddings and parties or celebrations such as Rojarīd and Korban.
It is a sort of sausage made from poultry neck skin stuffed with flour, semolina, bread crumbs or matzo meal (when cooked on Passover), schmaltz, and fried onions and sewn up with a thread.
A number of substitutes exist for people who, for ethical, environmental, health, religious, or other reasons, prefer not to eat bacon.
A dried sausage that is eaten as a snack in Japan is called カルパス (karupasu) and arrived with Russian immigrants fleeing similar to China.
Brouwerij De Molen has several different smoked beers, such as Bloed, Zweet & Tranen and Rook & Vuur.
There has been a growing movement by the co-operatives to centralise the slaughterhouse and bacon processing plants into ever larger establishments.
Further, he described the use of the water insoluble tar fraction as a wood preservative and documented the freezing of the wood vinegar to concentrate it.
Aspic is often used to glaze food pieces in food competitions to make the food glisten and make it more appealing to the eye.
Most strains do not grow in presence of oxygen, or in de Man, Rogosa Sharpe (MRS) medium, the standard medium for cultivation of lactobacilli.
Animal production in Switzerland covers livestock numbers (cattle, pigs, poultry, sheep), egg and milk production, and animals slaughtered for meat production.
Emmental and surroundings Engadiner Hauswurst / Liongia engiadinaisa, Engadin sausage, cooked and smoked beef and pork sausage, Grisons Frauenfelder Salzissen, boiled sausage mainly eaten hot, made from beef, pork and veal, neck fat and rind, green or brown for smoking, Frauenfeld region.
Prosciutto di Parma has a slightly nutty flavour from the Parmesan whey that is sometimes added to the pigs' diet.
References External links Oregon State University, Linus Pauling Institute article on Nitrosamines and cancer, including info on history of meat laws Risk factors in Pancreatic Cancer Archived 2010-06-12 at the Wayback Machine
History Turkey ham was developed by Jennie-O and was first introduced to American consumers by the company in 1975.
It is similar to the modern Italian verb prosciugare ('to dry thoroughly'; from Latin pro + exsucare ('to extract the juices from')).
Its flavour is stronger than that of other pork products, such as pancetta, and its texture is more delicate.
Hallau and Canton Schaffhausen, Zurich conurbation Kartoffelwurst / Liongia da tartuffels, potato sausage, two variants: one made from beef and pork, sometimes liver, air-dried for several weeks.
Production Guanciale is usually rubbed with just salt and ground black pepper by cooks in Rome, but some producers use other spices, herbs, peperoncino or red pepper, and sometimes garlic.
Smoking meat was probably common since the Neolithic, as livestock had to be slaughtered before the long winter season.
Application Traditionally, Zeeuws spek is eaten on whole-grain bread with mustard; other uses include serving it as an hors d'œuvre, on a salad, or with baked potatoes.
Originally, the dish was cooked in a pastry case and called pâté en croute; in more recent times it is more usually cooked without pastry in a terrine, and called pâté en terrine or simply terrine.
PEF holds potential as a type of low-temperature alternative pasteurization process for sterilizing food products.
In the United Kingdom, a pork leg cut, either whole or sliced, that has been cured but requires additional cooking is known as gammon.
See also Maceration (food) Confit byaldi Fruit preserves Philippine adobo Potted meat Rendang References Further reading Larousse gastronomique: the encyclopedia of food, wine & cookery, Ed.
Du provost a l'aumuche In some tales, bacon, and similarly pork and lard, are associated with corrupt clergymen as symbols of gluttony, greed, and lust.
The specification for these pigs is not only determined by UK legislation but also by conditions set by the UK supermarkets who are the main customers.
Turkey ham is a processed meat product made from cooked or cured turkey meat, water and other ingredients such as binders.
The council was founded in 1994 by the American Meat Institute and is headquartered in Washington, D.C.
The meco, also known as chili ahumado or típico, is grayish tan with a dusty-looking surface; some say it resembles a cigar butt.
The UK pig system was introduced following a call in the late 1990s by William Hague, the leader of the British Conservative Party (at the time in opposition) to ban Danish bacon.
They usually are produced by the reaction of nitrous acid (HNO2) and secondary amines, although other nitrosyl sources (e.g.
Dishes Oysters can be eaten on the half shell, raw, smoked, boiled, baked, fried, roasted, stewed, canned, pickled, steamed, or broiled, or used in a variety of drinks.
Above the auger is a heat shield to disperse the direct heat before it reaches the heat box to allow the wood smoke to keep the heat box at an even temperature throughout.
Sheftalia (locally [ʃeftaˈʎa]; Greek: σεφταλιά; Turkish: Şeftali Kebabı) is a traditional sausage that originated in Cyprus.
Elma Chips is a Brazilian snacks company and its main industrial unit is in Curitiba, capital of the Brazilian state of Paraná.
Czech Republic Prague ham is a brine-cured, stewed, and mildly beechwood-smoked boneless ham originally from Prague in Bohemia (Czech Republic).
Production Paprika is produced in various places, including Argentina, Mexico, Serbia, the Netherlands, China and the United States, but the two best-known producers are Hungary and Spain.
Paprika, like all capsicum varieties and their derivatives, is descended from wild ancestors from the Amazon River, cultivated in ancient times in South, Central and North America, particularly in central Mexico.
Etymology This cut is typically called capocollo or coppa in much of Italy, Corsica, and southern Switzerland (Ticino and the Grisons).
A hot link (also "red link", "Louisiana red hot" or "Louisiana hot link") is a type of sausage used in the cuisine of the Southern United States, and a part of American barbecue, soul food, and Cajun and Louisiana Creole cuisines.
Etymology The word comes from the French verb confire (to preserve), which in turn comes from the Latin word (conficere), meaning "to do, to produce, to make, to prepare." The French verb was first applied in medieval times to fruits cooked and preserved in sugar.
Following this, a mixture of spices, ground hot chilli peppers, palm vinegar, and Feni, a local liquor, is added.
The presence of nitrite in animal tissue is a consequence of metabolism of nitric oxide, an important neurotransmitter.
This minced beef is then combined with fat in a 1:5 ratio, creating a rich mixture that is packed into cleaned cow intestines.
Quenelles de brochet are prepared in many ways, but most recipes first prepare a panade, essentially a thick white sauce, then combine the panade with fish, and put the mixture through a sieve such as a tamis, yielding a forcemeat.
Gamba can be traced to Greek kampe (κάμπη) meaning "a bending/a joint", which is from Proto-Indo-European *kamp- ('to bend; crooked').
In 2009, Jon Stewart used it in a skit that drew negative attention from Seattle Post-Intelligencer's Leslie Kelly.
The name "peameal bacon" derives from the historic practice of rolling the cured and trimmed boneless loin in dried and ground yellow peas to extend shelf life.
Marketed as Baconnaise Lite, it contains 30 Cal per serving and less fat than the original Baconnaise.
This sausage was introduced to Malaysia and Southern Thailand by Cham refugees who migrated from conflict-stricken Indochina during the 1970s.
Meats and fish are the most common smoked foods, though cheeses, vegetables, and ingredients used to make beverages such as whisky, smoked beer, and lapsang souchong tea are also smoked.
Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes synthetic.
The pronunciation gabagool has been used by some Italian Americans in the New York City area and elsewhere in the Northeast US, based on the Neapolitan language word capecuollo (pronounced [kapəˈkwollə]) in working-class strata of 19th- and early 20th-century immigrants.
Wedge salad A wedge salad is a green salad made from a head of lettuce (often iceberg), halved or quartered, with other ingredients on top.
List of edible molluscs List of smoked foods Scallop – as food Smoked oyster References Further reading Fish and Shellfish, Grilled and Smoked - Karen Adler, Judith M.
They were naturally quite popular in New York City, and helped initiate the city's restaurant trade.
City hams may be sold pre-cooked and "ready-to-eat", or simply cured and smoked, which must then be cooked before consuming.
For both of them, the product regulations allow salt as the only additive to the meat, prohibiting additives such as nitrite and nitrate that are often used in unprotected products.
Danish pig exports started to the UK in the mid-19th century when exporting to Germany became difficult and have grown ever since despite attempts by UK domestic producers and other importers to compete.
In 2025, an application by the British Meat Processors Association to register Wiltshire Cured Ham (together with the alternative names Wiltshire Cured Bacon and Wiltshire Cured Gammon) as a traditional speciality guaranteed was unsuccessful.
"Bacon" is a song by the American singer-songwriter Nick Jonas featuring the American singer Ty Dolla $ign.
They funded their company with a $5,000 loan from Lefkow's 3-year-old son Dean, who had won the money on America's Funniest Home Videos for a video in which he smacks his dad with a hit while playing T-Ball.
The screw compresses the food against a set of knives pressing against a fixed plate with holes in it.
Preparation Zeeuws spek sold in butcher stores is prepared by marination in a spiced oil and mustard mixture (with the addition of soy sauce, pepper, and other aromatics) and then lightly grilled or broiled (or sometimes smoked).
Most of them use sauce hongroise – chopped onions cooked with paprika and white wine – and generally have cream added to the cooked sauce.
Various regions have their own PDO, whose specifications do not generally require ham from free range pigs.
Pancetta (Italian: [panˈtʃetta]) is a salt-cured pork belly meat product in a category known as salume.
In 2016, Live Oak began canning their beers for retail sale at grocery, liquor, and convenience stores across the state.
Green Man produces a range of beers and prides itself on its strict use of organic ingredients and batch brewing.
The brewery operates two locations throughout Central Oregon, the newest in SE Bend in July 2023; the West side location was closed in January 2024.
However, by 1760 Thomas had bought out his rival and also bought the Three Cups, a public house also owned by Hallstead.
In particular, malt granules can be used in the same applications as its as described in detail at the malt article, in particular in beverages, including in malted milk), malt beverages with different flavors (e.g.
Thomas Davies, who had been running his own brewery, the Yonge Street Brewery, bought the brewery from the Parks in 1848.
Furthermore, it seems that FLO genes have interchangeable functions that can compensate for one another.
Related kinds of quantity Outside the United States, volumes of oil are usually reported in cubic metres (m3) instead of oil barrels.
"Eckhardt (as mentioned by Ken Wells of The Wall Street Journal) is a soft-spoken, diminutive, roundish man with blue twinkling eyes and a white mustache and goatee.
There are also rotating seasonal ales, these include Light Munro, Island Hopping, Orkney Stout, Orkney Porter and Old Norway.
Damm also produces a range of Gluten-reduced beers under the Daura label, including a Lager and a Märzen.
The existing free trade within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland would likely turn protectionist, causing a loss of sales, employment and profits.
Bierbrand differs from whiskey in that it is not aged in oak barrels, and whiskey is made without hops.
Friars returned to the abbey between 1642 and 1650, and again from 1661 on then fades into obscurity around 1750.
The yeast is acidogenic, and when grown on glucose rich media under aerobic conditions, produces large amounts of acetic acid.
In addition to these, that are made throughout the year, the brewery also has several seasonal types.
The brewery produces four year-round beers as well as nearly 20 more seasonal (or limited release) beers.
As the cells are too large to be moved by Brownian motion, for binding of two or more cells to occur the cells must be subjected to low level of agitation.
The stated goal of the competition is to showcase the craft and skill of filter coffee brewing by hand, promoting manual coffee brewing and quality of service.
The two measures are related by ∘ Lintner = ∘ WK + 16 3.5 {\displaystyle {}^{\circ }{\mbox{Lintner}}={\frac {{}^{\circ }{\mbox{WK}}+16}{3.5}}} ∘ WK = ( 3.5 × ∘ Lintner ) − 16 {\displaystyle {}^{\circ }{\mbox{WK}}=\left(3.5\times {}^{\circ }{\mbox{Lintner}}\right)-16} .
See also Beer style, information on the styles of beer Notes Citation References External links Explanation from Brew Your Own Archived 25 August 2009 at the Wayback Machine How To Brew: Hop Bittering Calculations Archived 29 May 2010 at the Wayback Machine Colour Measurement
Bibliography The Big Book of Brewing (1974) ISBN 0-900841-34-6 Brewing Beers Like Those You Buy (1978) Beer Kits and Brewing (1980) == References ==
migrated to the Philippines in 1884 and later lived between Quiapo and San Miguel districts of the City of Manila, which later the street name of Echague Street was later renamed to honor Carlos Palanca, Sr.
Barbacks work in nightclubs, bars, pubs, restaurants, and catering halls and usually receive a portion of the bartender's tips.
If asked, in what consists the chemical act whereby the sugar is decomposed … I am completely ignorant of it.
Most are found in decaying plants; some live in close symbiosis with insects, which live on decaying plants.
It is the fourth largest producer of wheat beer in Germany, with annual production of around 410,000 hectolitres (350,000 US bbl), employing 160 workers.
Formerly brewed by Alken-Maes, it then was brewed until 2017 in France by Brasserie de Saint-Omer, in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region, before being brewed again in Belgium.
Croatian barley for production of Karlovačko beer In July 2014, Heineken Hrvatska has launched an initiative of Croatian barley for the production of Karlovačko beer.
Quidi Vidi Brewery is the third-largest brewer in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador, after Labatt and Molson.
Owner and brewmaster Philip DiFonzo gained input from over 200 bars, pubs, taverns, and restaurants before launching in July 2002 with a single Czech-style Bohemian Pilsner.
The name refers to the fictional bagpipe player who lived in the region, known from Josef Kajetán Tyl's play The Bagpiper of Strakonice.
In 2018, Heineken signed an agreement with China Resources Enterprises to purchase a 40% stake into the company.
She was the Director of Quality Control at Brasserie d'Orval from 1995 until 2014 before becoming the head brewmaster, the first woman in the world to hold this title at a Trappist brewery.
Calfkiller has participated in several beer festivals, including the 2011 Nashville Beer Festival and the 2012 East Nashville Beer Festival.
The name, which means "little grey one", may come from the name of the local grey-colored stone or from the grey frocks worn by the women who served the beer in local pubs.
American wild ale is a sour beer brewed in the United States using yeast or bacteria in addition to Saccharomyces cerevisiae for fermentation.
Geronimo IPA (North American IPA) Coarsely filtered India Pale Ale, with grapefruit, orange peel and piney aromas from several kilos of different American hops.
Ale silver was a rent or tribute annually paid to the Lord Mayor of London by those that sold ale within the city of London.
This yeast's complicated genome appears to be the result of hybridisation between two pure species in the Saccharomyces species complex, a factor that led to difficulty in establishing a proper taxonomy of the species.
Hops and brewing James stated at the Bigge inquiry into New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land in 1820 that he had been brewing for 30 years and that he made it from hops he got from the Daedalus.
In the industry, he is nicknamed "The Nose" and is seen as one of the most respected blenders in the Scottish malt whisky industry.
Beers The company produces a range of beers, some seasonal, including (with ABV) Null Komma Ulmer (2.5) Ulmer Colaweizen (2.7) Ulmer Export (5.4) Ulmer Hefeweizen Dunkel (5.1) Ulmer Hefeweizen Hell (5.1) Ulmer Hexensud (4.8) Ulmer Keller No.
The German Workers Party (DAP) of Anton Drexler met once a week in the restaurant on the first floor of the new building.
Long periods of aging are employed, a year or more, often in oak barrels, to impart a lactic acid character to the beer.
The brewery's Trickster IPA was one of several Washington micro brews selected in an expansion of the beers on tap onboard Washington State Ferries in 2017 to "hyper-local products and iconic beers from around the state".
Jassa Singh styled himself as Ahluwalia after the name of his native village, and established the ruling dynasty of the Kapurthala State.
The Helles Lager, Northern Pilsner, Marzen Amber Lager, and Hefeweizen are brewed using the same family recipes originally brought to California by Sudwerk's first German Brewmeister.
The brewery has also partnered with the Emerald City Supporters to release a beer for fans of Seattle Sounders FC.
In January 2022, Molson Coors Beverage Company announced that it would stop production of the Saint Archer brand and sell its San Diego–based brewery and taproom to Kings & Convicts Brewing Co., which owns the Ballast Point brand.
Melt water was collected from icebergs and transported to the brewery by local fishermen on their fishing boats.
In the Czech Republic, for example, common descriptions are "10 degree beers", "12 degree beers" which refers to the gravity in Plato of the wort before the fermentation.
Originally focussing on pale lagers, such as Hahn Premium and Hahn Premium Light, targeted at the mid-price sector of the market, the 1991-93 recession resulted in reduced demand, and led to the brewery being purchased by Australia's second largest brewer Lion in 1993.
If the whole fermentation cellar is cooled, conditioning must be done in separate tanks in a separate cellar.
Here he possibly assisted his brother Hendrik with some of the commissions he was completing in that city.
Their son Henry Pierre Heineken was born in 1886; questions of paternity became public in the 2010s, although it was discussed within the family and had been revealed in 1890.
Its Ace Smokey Porter won a gold medal in the "Stout & Porter" category of the 2023 New Zealand Beer Awards.
In his 1934 autobiography, Aus meinem Leben, Heurich writes that he was the one who did most of the labor of brewing while Schnell entertained customers.
Żywiec Group has four main breweries: Żywiec Brewery, Elbrewery, Leżajsk Brewery, and Warka Brewery, and is majority owned by the Dutch Heineken Group.
The store also advertised complete brewing systems, like the 300 barrel brewhouse advertised in the 1918 Western Brewer.
References External links Walkerville Brewing Company (archived website) Walkerville Brewery (active website)
Desperados' listed ingredients were water, malted barley, glucose syrup, corn, sugar, aromatic compound (agave spirit), citric acid, and hop extract.
Pictured here in a brown bottle, Karlovačko is now sold in green bottles (also in cans and plastic packaging).
Today, Hambleton Ales produces 100 barrels a week, employs a staff of fifteen and regularly exports to Europe and the USA.
Diemair: Analytik der Lebensmittel Nachweis und Bestimmung von Lebensmittel-Inhaltsstoffen, Springer Verlag, Berlin/Heidelberg/New York 1967, S.
Corporate activity In 2018, the shareholding was formed by the Canarian oil company Disa Corporación Petrolífera (33%), owned by the Carceller family, the German food group Dr.
While the measurement is applicable to any amylase, in general it refers to the combined α-amylase and β-amylase used in brewing.
The couple had two children: Marie-Anne Herregouts (1685–1749) and Jan Baptist Herregouts (1688–1717).
The external finish is often not a concern as it is not a food safety issue though manufacturers often take pride in providing tanks that look good as an effort to boost their customers perception of the installed product.
Main, Proceedings of the 14th NM Conference, 1995] Fining, by Ben Rotter The Use of Gelatin In Wine Fining, by C.G.B.
In 2020, Wichita Brewing Company signed a licensing agreement to revive the brand and start brewing once popular beers from Tallgrass.
The Stadtbrauerei Spalt (Spalt City Brewery in German) is a brewery in the Middle Franconian town of Spalt which was created in the year 1879 through the merger of numerous smaller breweries.
As a regional beer patterned after the Callao pilsner from Callao, it copied its stylized logo and its malta (dark beer) companion, although the latter was called Malta Trujillo.
Hale's Ales had also begun experimenting with bourbon barrel-aging certain recipes including the Wee Heavy Winter Ale, Troll Porter, as well as Supergoose IPA.
History The predecessor systems of the brewmaxx platform already provided the technological functions (TF) for brewery-specific requirements.
Compared to its relatively small size (The brewery has risen to one of the biggest minor breweries in Finland), the company has a four-digit number of shareholders.
By 1907, beer had already received international recognition at trade fairs in Rome, London, Antwerp, Paris, and Genoa.
His partner of 62 years James Itsuo (Jimmy) Takita, retired science reference librarian of the Multnomah County Library, died three months earlier.
The equivalent relation giving SG at 20 °C for a given °P is: S G = 260.4 260.4 − ∘ P {\displaystyle SG={\frac {260.4}{260.4-^{\circ }P}}} Points can be used in the ADF and RDF formulas.
From 1997 to 2015, the brewery was run out of rented industrial space on East 5th Street in central Austin.
Their low relative bitterness, but strong aroma, are often distinguishing characteristics of European-style lagers, such as Pilsener, Dunkel, and Oktoberfest/Märzen.
As part of the deal, Kings & Convicts took over Saint Archer’s 100,000-barrel capacity Miramar brewery and adjoining taproom, as well as its 1,200-square-foot taproom in Leucadia, Calif.
The manufacturer claims that Waikato Draught has a strong malty flavour with a well-defined bitterness.
Their products have featured in beer festivals around Washington, including the Oktoberfest in Seattle and the company is one of several beer suppliers to baseball games at the Safeco Field.
According to a 2018 World Health Organization report, beer consumption in Lebanon amounts to 34% of the total alcohol consumed in the country.
In Accra, the brewery is represented at the former premises of Achimota Brewery Company, in Achimota, at the Tata Brewery Ltd, which was established by J.
Background Anker is made from fermented sunflower seeds that have gone through a germination process (barley malt) with the addition of hops for flavor and aroma.
Some important species include: Kluyveromyces lactis Kluyveromyces marxianus Kluyveromyces thermotolerans See also Yeast in winemaking == References ==
Palanca's heirs were able to establish the Carlos Palanca Memorial Awards for Literature in his honor.
Brews The Hale's Ales brewing process followed a traditional English style, utilizing open fermentation tanks with top-fermenting ale yeast.
It was established in 1985 and was one of the first North American breweries to revive the ancient technique of brewing cask-conditioned cask ale.
In December 2002, it was reestablished when two former employees Phil Gagne (the brewmaster)and Jeff Crawford (the vice president of sales) purchased the recipes.
Fred Huber, son of Joseph, bought the brewery and resumed operations in a partnership with Chicago's Berghoff family, but the brewery filed for bankruptcy and was sold in 1995.
The beer is the flagship product of Dominica Brewery Limited, a subsidiary of Cervecería Nacional Dominicana (itself a subsidiary of AmBev, which in turn is a subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch InBev) as of February 24, 2010.
Brewers generally refer to this apparent attenuation when using the word without qualification, although the measurement of real attenuation — the actual percentage of sugar consumed by the yeast — is an important indicator of yeast health and for producing certain styles of beer.
In his first book "The Big Book of Brewing", Dave Line helped people to begin to reach the quality they were looking for, by using ingredients and processes that were used in breweries, with simple homebrewing equipment.
Ground ivy (Glechoma hederacea) Horehound (Marrubium vulgare) Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) Sweet gale (Myrica gale) Yarrow (Achillea millefolium) Gruit recipes varied somewhat; each gruit producer included different herbs to produce unique flavours and effects.
Craft malting also appeals to local food culture in areas away from the main grain producing areas of the Midwestern United States.
Display in museums In 2013, the World Bottle appeared in an exhibition called Adhocracy, which was shown in the New Museum in New York and was moved to LimeWharf in London.
Zymology, also known as zymurgy, is an applied science that studies the biochemical process of fermentation and its practical uses.
The final product is a blend of a younger 8-month-old beer with an 18-month-old beer, it has an alcohol percentage of 6.2%.
These are related approximately to °Lintner by: ∘ Lintner = ∘ WK + 16 3.5 {\displaystyle {}^{\circ }{\mbox{Lintner}}={\frac {{}^{\circ }{\mbox{WK}}+16}{3.5}}} ∘ WK = ( 3.5 × ∘ Lintner ) − 16 {\displaystyle {}^{\circ }{\mbox{WK}}=\left(3.5\times {}^{\circ }{\mbox{Lintner}}\right)-16} .
It was originally located in a space at the historic Seattle Brewing and Malting Plant, where Rainier Beer was once produced.
In his 1897 article on beer-markers George Dollar wrote that the "beer-marker" custom has been known to Munich for many years, and that it has been adopted in nearly all of the German cities and towns.
Bathams is a brewery in Brierley Hill, West Midlands, England established in 1877 in a former slaughterhouse.
Promotion At its early history Star Beer was promoted as a home made brand with international standards.
Various national cultures have various active ingredients in starters, and often involve mixed microflora.
See also List of wineries, breweries, and distilleries in New Jersey References External links Climax Brewing Company
In 1717 he was one of the four artists who contributed funds to the creation of a drawing academy in Bruges.
Brewing proper begins with mashing, the steeping of a mash of the grist with the hot liquor in a mash tun on the 2nd floor to extract the maltose sugars and other starchy components of the grist.
All of their beers are organic and suitable for vegetarians, as they do not use isinglass in the brewing process.
It was established in 1891 by Waldemar Stoud Platou when he acquired the minor local brewery Det Sembske Bryggeri.
Feuillien introduced a Christmas beer in 1969, which by 2013 accounted for 8% of their total production.
In 1955, the brewery introduced Maisel's Weisse, a line of wheat beers for which they are best known.
Before 2018, the use of cask breathers was opposed by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA), a policy that was changed in April 2018 to allow pubs using cask breathers to be classified as real ale pubs and listed in the Good Beer Guide.
His father Thomas Cobbold left money to his sons and daughters, in trust to his wife, Sarah Cobbold.
If the beer is particularly "lively" (common in warm weather and with specific beers) the contents may spray out when the cask is vented.
Bret started selling homebrewing supplies from the hardware store and soon it became more profitable than selling hardware.
In France, a similar beer was marketed beginning in the 1960s by Pelforth as George Killian's Biere Rousse.
Florida Brewery produces non-alcoholic Malta style beverages for Venezuela's Malta Polar, Goya, Great Value, Hatuey, Mr.
He presented his Letters of Credence to Ulanhu, Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, in Beijing on February 17, 1981.
Homebrewing is closely related to the hobby of home distillation, the production of alcoholic spirits for personal consumption, but home distillation is generally more tightly regulated.
Clix is a brand of malt liquor first made by the Grand Valley Brewing Company in Ionia, Michigan in 1937.
Since 1964, the collection has been a member of the Federation of Czech and Slovak Collections of Microorganisms, it is internationally registered under the name RIBM number 655.
Ordinary brewer's yeast will usually produce off-flavors above 25C (77F), but kveik can go as high as 43C (109F) without ill effects.
Quidi Vidi Brewery’s beer can also be found in other provinces across Canada like Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and Alberta.
The conversion is as follows: ∘ Lintner = ∘ WK + 16 3.5 {\displaystyle {}^{\circ }{\mbox{Lintner}}={\frac {{}^{\circ }{\mbox{WK}}+16}{3.5}}} ∘ WK = ( 3.5 ⋅ ∘ Lintner ) − 16 {\displaystyle {}^{\circ }{\mbox{WK}}=\left(3.5\cdot {}^{\circ }{\mbox{Lintner}}\right)-16} .
It produces three cask conditioned beers, Best Bitter (4.3%), Mild (3.5%) and XXX (6.3%), a Christmas special.
Beer The beers made by Sudwerk include California Dry Hop Lager, which was created by replacing the German hops with Pacific Northwestern hops in the recipe of the Helles Lager; Northern Pilsner; Märzen Amber Lager; Hefeweizen Bavarian Wheat; Cascaderade India Pale Lager; and 3 Best Friends.
Over the years Compañía Nacional de Cerveza, makers of Pilsen Callao, bought the majority of SCT shares, a situation that remained until the takeover.
The sheets can be flushed if the filter becomes blocked, and usually the sheets are disposable and are replaced between filtration sessions.
Homebrewing is the brewing of beer or other alcoholic beverages on a small scale for personal, non-commercial purposes.
5 (5.3) Ulmer Kristallweizen (5.1) Ulmer Maibock (7.2) Ulmer Marzenbier (?) Ulmer Mauritius Eisbock Edition 2013 (9.9) Ulmer Oktobergold (5.9) Ulmer Pilsener (5.2) Ulmer Radler (2.7) Ulmer Sportweizen (?) Ulmer Vollmondbier (5.2) Ulmer Winterbock (7.4) References External links Official website
As farming was modernized and beer became commercially available, most farmhouse brewing died out and the yeast cultures with it.
The ad is the sixth in the "Good things come to those who wait" campaign, following on from the hugely successful noitulovE campaign in 2005.
Products Dorada Dorada Especial Dorada Sin Dorada Sin con Limón Tropical Tropical Premium Tropical Limón References External links Official website (in Spanish)
Originally brewed in 2001 to celebrate the anniversary of Helston's first charter, which was granted in 1201; it is described as "deceptively smooth, with a sweet taste".
The beer was phased out following the launch of the new Eiken Artois in 2008, in a revamp of the "Artois Family" brand to try to stem falling sales.
A pony glass may mean one of two types of small glassware: A quarter-pint glass of beer: 5 imp fl oz (142 ml), metricated to 140 ml in Australia.
Black Isle Brewery is an organic brewery based in Munlochy, Black Isle, Ross and Cromarty, Scotland.
As of April 2011, it accounted for 85% of Georgetown's business and was available in about 500 bars around Seattle.
The Pig's Eye Brewing Company was a beer brand and beer brewing company established in 1992 in Saint Paul, Minnesota.
In addition, the sale did not affect Labatt's Canadian operations in any way; Anheuser-Busch InBev retains full control of the Labatt brand portfolio within Canada.
An ISO standard tasting glass is often used in professional tastings, which is the standard for tasting different beverages.
According to CNN, the brewery produced "some of the best brews in the state [of Washington]" in 2015; Thrillist listed them as one of the top 13 in the state in 2015; and three of their brews were rated among the best 30 in Washington state in 2023, according to Beer Advocate.
Hansa Bryggeri merged with the Østfold-based Borg Bryggerier (Borg Breweries) in 1997, which resulted in the creation of the company Hansa Borg Bryggerier.
In April 2013, Les Brasseurs RJ purchased full control of McAuslan, and McAuslan's founders left the company.
Betz India Pale Ale 1933 - 1935 India Pale Ale 1933 - 1935 Betz Porter 1933 - 1939 Betz Bock 1933 - 1939 Betz Pilsener Beer 1933 - 1939 Five Star Ale 1933 - 1939 Old Stock Lager Beer 1933 - 1939 Old German Beer 1934 - 1937 See also List of defunct breweries in the United States == References ==
During his tenure with Interbrew, Dedeurwaerder clashed with the families who owned the company over international expansion.
Like the other coastal castes such as the Karavas and Salagamas, the Durava migrated to Sri Lanka between 13th to 18th century from South India and are of historical Dravidian ethnic origin.
Many members of this genus are considered very important in food production where they are known as brewer's yeast, baker's yeast and sourdough starter among others.
It can be consumed neat, either chilled or at room temperature, or is sometimes mixed into beer to make a boilermaker.
Until 2003 the Belot family managed the brewery, but the number of family shareholders in the sixth generation had become too numerous.
Wort contains the sugars, the most important being maltose and maltotriose, that will be fermented by the brewing yeast to produce alcohol.
Carta Clara is a Mexican beer brand, originally produced in the state of Yucatan, manufactured by "Cerveceria Yucateca", a local brewery.
The Wellington beers are brewed in small batches with natural ingredients and use no cold filtration, natural carbonation, no pasteurization, and secondary fermentation in casks.
The main part of the farm was generally a U-shaped complex of buildings enclosing the farm yard, with the "bryggers" as a room in this complex.
Such beers are similar to Belgian Lambic and Oud bruin, and typically fermented using a strain of brettanomyces, resulting in a "funky" flavor.
Steinbart also carried hop flavored corn sugar and equipment like beer testers, crocks, wooden spigots, imported beer steins, and a 6 keg beer cabinet.
The Gray and Dacre Brewery was located in West Ham Lane, West Ham, Essex, in the first half of the nineteenth century.
Inspired by this, Adnams brewed a range of three beers exclusively for Marks & Spencer in 2018, using leftover bread from the store's sandwich suppliers.
By The Horns Brewing Co was a British microbrewery based in Salfords, Redhill and founded by Alex Bull and Chris Mills.
The beer's name is derived from the Kalinago name for the island, Wai‘tu kubuli, which means "Tall is her body." The water used to make Kubuli comes from Dominica's own Loubière Springs.
It is argued that lectin maturation occurs some fourteen hours after the cessation of cell division and is therefore not concomitant with entry into stationary phase, although this is strain dependent.
In 1982 the Carlsberg Group bought 50% of the shares from the company, followed in 1998 by a further 25%.
Anne's in Clontarf, Dublin, Guinness was the third son of Sir Benjamin Guinness, 1st Baronet, and younger brother of Arthur Guinness, 1st Baron Ardilaun.
Tijuana Beer (Cerveza Tijuana) also known as TJ Beer, is located in the city of Tijuana, and is one of the handful of Mexican microbrewies.
Spingo Special, 6.5% ABV A bitter, brewed for the first time to celebrate the marriage of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer, described as "Dark in colour and sweet in taste".
These markers, typically about 10cm high, were knitted wool puppets affixed to the thumbpiece on the lid of the tankard.
Sorghum has been used for hundreds of years as the main ingredient in many of the indigenous traditional African beers.
The farmhouse brews of the region are highly distinctive, using local ingredients and techniques from pre-Soviet times.
It was marketed as “sparkling water with alcohol” and sold in flavors such as citrus, berry, and club.
History The brewery was founded in 1708 by Benjamin Wilson as an attachment to the Star Inn on the high street, then the main road to the City of London, and beside the River Rom.
Spingo Middle 5.0% ABV A traditional sweet Cornish bitter, originally brewed to welcome home those men who fought in the First World War.
In 2012, McKenzie River Corporation launched a beverage brand named AIR (short for Alcohol Inspired Refresher) in the San Francisco, combining carbonated water with alcohol and natural flavors.
References External links Official website Documents and clippings about Würzburger Hofbräu in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
Hahn Brewery was established by Dr Charles Hahn in 1988 at an old factory site in the suburb of Camperdown in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Environmental impact Homebrewing can reduce the environmental impact of fermented beverages by using less packaging and transportation than commercially brewed beverages, and by the use of refillable jugs, reusable bottles or other reusable containers.
Women's Forum Australia spokeswoman Melinda Tankard was quoted as saying: "This is demeaning, inappropriate and troubling." Rosser responded, "This generation of Aussies have grown up on the beach and topless girls in bikinis are commonplace.
The brewery was founded in 1857 by two entrepreneurs, Johann Wallnöfer and Franz Tappeiner, from Meran (Italian: Merano).
Lautering has two stages: first wort run-off, during which the extract is separated in an undiluted state from the spent grains, and sparging, in which extract that remains with the grains is rinsed off with hot water.
However, Snow includes a large range of beers; when Budweiser, Bud Light and the other members of the Budweiser family are counted as a single brand, they easily top the sales charts and also brew over 10 billion liters a year.
Different devices and methods have been employed by competitors at the WBrC, including French press, pour-over, modified AeroPress and other hybrid techniques.
At the creditors' meeting of another brewery, the Herrenhäuser Brewery, on 20 October 2010 it was agreed that it could be purchased by Privatbrauerei Wittingen.
By 1908, with its own network of railway sidings, the brewery employed 450 workers and by 1970 it occupied 20 acres (81,000 m2) and had 1,000 workers.
Sinebrychoff's beer's biggest market rivals are the products of another large brewery Hartwall, namely Lapin Kulta and Karjala, as well as the beer of Olvi brewery: Olvi.
Three main buildings of the brewery, which in 2004 were entered in the register of monuments will be restored and their interiors converted into loft apartments named Browary Wrocławskie.
In winemaking The amount of FAN that winemakers will see in their grape depends on a number of components including grape variety, rootstock, vineyard soils and viticultural practices (such as the use of fertilizers and canopy management) as well as the climate conditions of particular vintages.
Base malts have enough diastatic power to convert their own starch and usually, that of some amount of starch from unmalted grain, called adjuncts.
During the 1870s the business shifted production from traditional top-fermented beer to Bavarian-style bottom-fermented lager; their board decided in January 1873 the discontinuation of "Hollandsch bier" in favour of Bavarian beer at the Stadhouderskade brewery.
Betz also started a brewery in Jersey City, New Jersey with Henry Lembeck named The Lembeck and Betz Eagle Brewing Company.
Awards and Accolades Climax ESB has been listed as a top American beer by Stuff Magazine and Michael Jackson's Ultimate Beer.
As the name indicates, the beer is flavored with peach juice and the label says that each bottle contains 20% of peach concentrate.
Elmir Craft Beer Elmir Craft Beer, one of the few modern breweries in Lebanon, was founded by Noël Abinader and Chris Fadel, a trained brewer and chemist.
Early life Christian Ferdinand Heurich was born on September 12, 1842, in the village of Haina, near the town of Römhild, Duchy of Saxe-Meiningen (in the region of Thuringia), Christian was the third of four children born to Kaspar and Anna Margarethe (née Fuchs) Heurich.
The brewery was sold and re-incorporated in 2012, the brand Königsbacher was abolished and the beer sold under the new brand Koblenzer.
Brewing has taken place since around the 6th millennium BC, and archaeological evidence suggests that emerging civilisations, including ancient Egypt, China, and Mesopotamia, brewed beer.
The beer is currently sold in Australia, and took home the 'Peoples Choice' awards at the 2008 Australian Beer Festival held at The Rocks in Sydney.
The Idiga were categorised as an Other Backwards Class (OBC) in the 1980s, when they constituted around 2.5 per cent of the population in Karnataka.
Company) - Richtár, Vartáš Pivovar Martiner (Heineken Slovensko a.s.) - Martiner, Martinský zdroj Minipivovar M.K.
To better connect fundamental research with practical applications and maximize the institution's scientific capabilities, new legislation was developed at the President's direction and passed by the National Assembly in April 2011.
For example, children demonstrate a facility for acquiring spoken language but require intensive training to learn to read and write.
See also COCOA (digital humanities) Cross-reference Ctags KWIC Language industry Statistically improbable phrase == References ==
Abeghyan Institute of Literature Institute of Art Museum-Institute of Genocide Shirak Armenology Research Center Armenian Encyclopedia Publishing House All Armenian Foundation Financing Armenological Studies See also Education in Armenia Karlen G.
BAKITA coordinates its activities with similar bodies in Kenya and Uganda to aid in the development of Kiswahili.
The Academy of Persian Language and Literature (APLL; Persian: فرهنگستان زبان و ادب فارسی, Farhangestân-e Zabân-o Adab-e Fârsi) is the regulatory body for the Persian language, headquartered in Tehran, Iran.
The Parishad according to Deshpande lead in the demand for the formation of a separate linguistic state – Maharashtra.
It publishes the Ladino magazine Aki Yerushalayim for the Sephardi community in Israel and the diaspora.
On the first of July 1974 the Institute of Modern Languages was established as an integral part of University of Dhaka, incorporating the Department of Foreign Languages of 1964 into its constitution.
Notable among these are the decades long periodic reviews of the 25 years of annual pan-Chinese rosters since 2000 and compilation of new word databases (LIVAC Annual Pan-Chinese New Word Rosters).
Supported bodies Relevant bodies to which the agency provides funding include the Ulster-Scots Language Society, Ullans Speakers Association and the Ulster-Scots Community Network.
Professor Clara Momanyi, Secretary of CHAKITA, was tasked with translation of the new Constitution of Kenya, which was approved in the 2010 referendum.
However, when the first verb is in an -ing form, it is only grammatical to follow it with a to-infinitive.
The majority of the texts are from written English, collected from websites, newspapers, magazines and books.
They also showed that this probability of mismatch is a central probability in one of the fundamental probabilistic retrieval models, the Binary Independence Model.
All the collected data is analyzed by linguists that develop a form of writing which is accepted by the speakers.
Jha has been described as "the most noteworthy contribution to the field of Maithili linguistics." == References ==
The Center for the Studies of the Royal Spanish Academy, opened in 2007, is located at Calle Serrano 187–189.
Some members are also affiliated with the Institute of Linguistics of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
The Office of the Commissioner of Official Languages of the Canadian government is responsible for achieving the objectives of, and promoting, Canada's Official Languages Act.
Kant claimed that humans, from birth, must experience all objects as being successive (time) and juxtaposed (space).
It was born in 2009, evolving from the association's previous Área Editorial da AGAL (AGAL's Editorial Area), thus gaining greater entity and autonomy.
Regarding the allegation that books of BLB were burnt, former Sarawak state DBP deputy director said that old books were written off or given away when it was expired, no longer needed, or there were overstocks.
Paul Rodgers and Richard Braddock focused on paragraph structure, in separate studies, in order to dispel common misjudgments about the importance of traditional paragraph structure.
It has offices in various autonomous universities of UP System, the most notable of which is the one housed at the University of the Philippines Diliman (i.e.
The Academy's dictionaries In pursuance of its goals of maintaining and strengthening the Swedish language, the Academy publishes three dictionaries.
However, the nature of individual change is generally found to be not the rejection of new variants by older speakers, as associated with the age-grading model, but the late adoption of new variants by adults who learned older variants as children.
This ended in 1938 when the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts and the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium were set up.
Although Greenberg did not produce an explicit argument for monogenesis, all of his classification work was geared toward this end.
References External links Japan-Netherlands Institute Publications at the Wayback Machine Repository of The Japan-Netherlands Institute at the Leiden University Office Tokyo
Still, however, it may remain doubtfull whether the Danes and the Swedes could not, in general, understand each other tolerably well...
Two linguists, Joan Bresnan of Stanford University and Sam Mchombo of the University of California, Berkeley, maintain the idea of words as unanalyzable units; Bresnan & Mchombo (1995) re-evaluate this theory using evidence from Bantu to resolve clitics' apparent violations of the LIH.
In addition to regularly hosting the Nostratic Seminar, the school also hosts the Annual Sergei Starostin Memorial Conference on Comparative-Historical Linguistics.
This decision evoked a mixed reaction throughout Wales: welcomed by Cymdeithas yr Iaith Gymraeg but met with scepticism by others.
In 1962, Illich-Svitych began working on a book about Nostrative comparative linguistics called A Tentative Comparison of the Nostratic Languages (Russian: Опытом сравнения ностратических языков).
The tasks of Oqaasileriffik is to research the Greenlandic language including its dialects, set the orthography, approve foreign and new words, publish terminology lists and reports informing language policy, and to provide information, advice and recommendation on Greenlandic.
Each member is elected for life by the rest of the academicians from among prestigious Spanish-language authors.
External links CorCenCC National Corpus of Contemporary Welsh website CorCenCC GitHub Y Tiwtiadur, a Welsh language pedagogic toolkit == References ==
1 – 7 were issued in 1989 Confrontational research of the Slavic languages vocabulary Czech-Slovak Dictionary, 2nd ed.
The terminology extraction feature provides a list of relevant terms based on comparison with a large corpus of general language.
Access is currently restricted to authors and researchers working on projects and publications for Cambridge University Press, and researchers at Cambridge English Language Assessment.
Besides publishing books and articles, Benzing devoted much time and care to highly instructive book reviews containing profound analyses and complementary remarks on important scholarly questions.
History The Council for the Development of French in Louisiana (CODOFIL) was established in 1968 to promote the preservation of French language and culture in Louisiana.
It also contributed to the development of test for speech therapy for West Frisian, which made it possible to assess children's linguistic progress in West Frisian.
The Central Hindi Directorate (Hindi: केन्द्रीय हिन्दी निदेशालय, romanized: Kendrīya Hindī Nideśālay), New Delhi is the directorate, under the Ministry of Education (India), responsible for promotion of Standard Hindi.
In 1950 it was merged with the N.Ya.Marr Institute of Language and Mind and became the Institute of Linguistics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, but in 1958 it was re-established.
Dhivehi Language Academy (Dhivehi: ދިވެހިބަހުގެ އެކެޑަމީ, romanized: Dhivehibahuge Ekedamee), is the national academy for promoting the Dhivehi language in the Maldives, established on 8 August 2011.
The Sentro ng Wikang Filipino (SWF; literally, "Center of the Filipino Language"), also known the Sentro, is a language academy, research center, and university-based publishing house that is part of the University of the Philippines System (UP).
In 1896, the Zeeman effect was discovered at the institution by Pieter Zeeman and shortly afterward explained by Hendrik Antoon Lorentz.
The hypothesis has fallen out of favour since the latter half of the 20th century and has limited degrees of acceptance, predominantly among a minority of Russian linguists.
It received an annual government grant of £13m which was used to "promote and facilitate" the use of the Welsh language.
These rules were later amended by Rabindranath Tagore and other scholars and practiced at academic level in all over Bengal for next 70 years.
This article provides a list of all full members (académicos de número), past and present, of the Real Academia Española, the Spanish language regulator institution, as of July 1, 2006.
Inbound anaphoric islands Phrases can contain pronouns that function as anaphors (referring to a previous referent) or deictics (referring to a salient entity), derived words and compounds cannot, and act as "anaphoric islands", separated from outside reference.
Many of the ideas often attributed to Saussure were already present in work by the Kazan school, which Saussure was aware of.
The Language Act was founded on the principle of Russian-Estonian bilingualism, requiring individuals in certain positions to demonstrate proficiency in Estonian in addition to Russian.
The School values the classical works of Jakob von Uexküll and Juri Lotman as well as those of Charles Sanders Peirce.
The output of a concordancer may serve as input to a translation memory system for computer-assisted translation, or as an early step in machine translation.
The sources are writings of all sorts, from "literary novels and specialist journals to everyday newspapers and magazines and from Hansard to the language of blogs, emails, and social media".
I-IV Nirendranath Chakravarty Gadya Samagra (Ek-Tritiya) – Complete Prose Works of Nirendranath Chakravarty, Vols.
Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature Prize Since its early days, the Royal Academy has issued an annual prize for what the academy considered outstanding research and work in the Dutch language.
The Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala, or ALMG (English: Guatemalan Academy of Mayan Languages) is a Guatemalan organisation that regulates the use of the 22 Mayan languages spoken within the borders of the republic.
The date by which such a grouping must have dissolved—in that innovations ceased to be shared—is also contentious, though it seems unlikely to have persisted after 500 AD, by which time the Anglo-Saxons had migrated to England and the Elbe Germanic tribes had settled in Southern Germany.
The texts come from a variety of sources: TV/Movies subtitles: (128 million words) Texts taken from the OpenSubtitles collection of American TV shows and movies.
'group of keepers of the Basque language'; often called in English Royal Academy of the Basque Language) is the official academic language regulatory institution which watches over the Basque language.
IASCL was founded in 1970 by a group of prominent language acquisition researchers to promote international and interdisciplinary cooperation in the study of child language.
The Royal Academy of Valencian Culture has had several moments of collaboration with the local, provincial, and regional governments, which have usually collaborated with its finance.
Using Latin alphabet letters Supporters included Yang Zenghao and Liu Using non-existent symbols Supporters included Wu, Lu, Ma, Li, Xing, Wang Sui, Hu, Yang Qu, Gao, Chen, and Zheng.
It creates, collects and distributes speech and text databases, lexicons, and other resources for linguistics research and development purposes.
Krauss Alaska Native Language Archive (ANLA) in Fairbanks, Alaska, is an extensive repository for manuscripts and recordings documenting the Native Languages of Alaska.
Early hominids may have evolved capacities for similar, non-semantic purposes, that were later modified for symbolic language.
Elicitation, in which knowledge is sought directly from human beings, is usually distinguished from indirect methods such as gathering information from written sources.
Melbourne (CBD) La Trobe has a city campus in the Melbourne central business district, on Collins Street.
History The academy came into being through two disparate organisations working towards the same goal at different times.
The Institute published the Dictionary of Croatian Literary Language, as well as taking over the publishing of the Croatian Encyclopedia.
He was awarded honorary doctorates from Copenhagen University in 2013 and from the University of York in 2019.
Besides his diplomatic duties, Benzing gave courses in Turkic languages at the Turcological Department of the Faculty of Letters (Turkish:Edebiyat Fakültesi) of the University of Istanbul.
Although the academy's business is creating new words from Hebrew roots and structures to replace loanwords derived from other languages, its own name is a loanword, "akademya." It addresses this irony on its English website.
Natural languages Constructed languages Apart from the Akademio de Esperanto, most constructed languages (also called conlangs) have no true linguistic regulators or language academies.
After the Third Republic was declared in 1992, the Academy of Sciences was restructured and given its current name as the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Armenia.
See also LGBT people in science References External links Arnold Zwicky's blog Arnold Zwicky on Stanford Profiles Donated papers at The State Historical Society of Missouri, Research Center- Columbia.
The long term goal of DIAKORP is to create a corpus covering the period of 1850–present and interconnecting the data with the SYN series.
History Different practices for Danish orthography has been in existence since the language started to be written down.
This proceeds either from the use of different prepositions or other words in Compounds; or else because some Languages retain only the simple words, and others know none but the Compounds.
Through such initiatives, it has played a role in connecting grassroots tribal populations with broader legal and institutional frameworks.
The age-stratified variation of the analyzed variables can be seen as an indicator of language change in progress, showing that the centralization of diphthongs on the island is about to decline in younger age groups.
Pedersen's original Nostratic proposal synthesized earlier macrofamilies, some of which, including Indo-Uralic, involved extensive comparison of inflections.
Collin, professor of politics, noted that "Ethnologue has become a standard resource for scholars in the other social sciences: anthropologists, economists, sociologists and, obviously, sociolinguists".
Occasionally also the name 'Tartu–Bloomington–Copenhagen school' has been used, as having succeeded the earlier Tartu–Moscow school.
Sentences with repetitive words or forms can be nearly incomprehensible even when adhering to grammatical rules.
McWhorter, in summarizing the evidence for Scandinavian influence, writes that "the evidence strongly suggests that extensive second-language acquisition by Scandinavians from the eighth century onwards simplified English grammar to a considerable extent".
He was honored with the 2019 Lifetime Achievement Award from the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL).
The Evolution of Human Languages (EHL) project is a historical-comparative linguistics research project hosted by the Santa Fe Institute.
They also have 15% of their videos subtitled through the organization Amara, formerly known as Universal Subtitles, which is a web-based non-profit project that hosts and allows user-subtitled video to be accessed and created.
Phrasal recursivity This test for lexical integrity highlights how phrasal compounds may appear to be penetrable by syntactic operations, but have in fact been lexicalized.
Chapter VII: Of the Adverb and Interjection Lhuyd describes the formation of adverbs with the particle en or yn before an adjective, corresponding to English '-ly', so for example the adjective fîr 'wise' can become an adverb, en fîr 'wisely'.
The most salient difference is that a translation memory loses the original context, while a bitext retains the original sentence order.
The aim is to accelerate the pace of development of the language by encouraging writers, researchers, etc, and to bring Konkani people from all regions together.
The Department of Grammar focuses on research and description of the grammatical structure of the Czech language, descriptive methodology and corpus linguistics theory and practice.
So when a sentence like that in the diagram below is pronounced, 'John' precedes the V-v-T chain, which in turn precedes 'Mary', the latter being the specifier of V.
In computer science, extended affix grammars (EAGs) are a formal grammar formalism for describing the context free and context sensitive syntax of language, both natural language and programming languages.
The Myanmar Language Commission (Burmese: မြန်မာစာအဖွဲ့; formerly Burmese Language Commission; abbreviated MLC) is the pre-eminent government body on matters pertaining to the Burmese language.
Ogooglebar (from o- prefix (negative prefix) + googlebar (google + -bar suffix (-able))) is a word, in Swedish, that the Language Council of Sweden has been forced to remove from its top 10 list of new words by a claim of brand protection from Google.
Ethnologue estimated that there was over 130,000 Ladino speakers in the world, most of whom living in Israel.
Bibliography A General Rhetoric (1970) Rhétorique de la poésie : lecture linéaire, lecture tabulaire (1977) Collages (1978) Plan d'une rhétorique de l'image (1980) Traité du signe visuel: Pour une rhétorique de l'image (1992) Figuras, conocimiento, cultura.
In a concurrence in part and in the judgment, Justice Thomas Lee wrote to put forth an alternative ground for the majority's holding—interpreting the phrase "custody determination" by using corpus linguistics.
The Cambridge-Cornell corpus is the result of a joint project between Cambridge University Press and Cornell University.
He looked at three tracks of group activity, many different breakpoints that signify changes in the development, and a model for task accomplishment.
It has its head office in the Corn Exchange Building in Belfast, and a regional office in Raphoe, in eastern County Donegal (one of the three counties of the historical province of Ulster in the Republic of Ireland).
This could be attributed to the standard forms of agreement, between rights owners and the Consortium on the one hand, and between corpus users and the Consortium on the other.
As of 2018 the Bendigo campus is situated on 33 ha (82 acres) of land, consisting of four sites—Edwards Road, Osbourne Street, the art centre and the La Trobe Rural Health School.
CODOFIL continues to recruit and sponsor French, Belgian and Canadian associate teachers as per its accords with those countries, who are placed alongside local teachers upon LDOE's recommendation.
Conversations were recorded by the research team, and a crowdsourcing app enabled Welsh speakers in the community to record and upload samples of their own language use to the corpus.
Since 2005, in collaboration with the Quebec-France Association and the Quebecers' National Movement, it awards the Quebec-France Marie-Claire-Blais Literary Prize to a French writer for his or her first work.
Thus, various types of comparative studies and applications in information technology as well as development of often related innovative applications have been possible.
Cambridge Financial English Corpus The Cambridge Financial English Corpus contains texts relating to economics and finance, including leading financial magazines and newspapers.
They are mainly used on other Wikimedia projects, for example to illustrate entries on Wiktionaries or proper nouns in Wikipedia articles.
The TOEFL test was created under his leadership at the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington, DC.
Within the area of corpus linguistics, collocation is defined as a sequence of words or terms which co-occur more often than would be expected by chance.
The Cornish Language Partnership (Cornish: Keskowethyans an Taves Kernewek [kɛskɔˈwɛθjans an ˈtavɛs kɛrˈnɛwɛk], [kɛskɔˈwɛθjɐnz ɐn ˈtævɐz kərˈnuːɐk]) was a representative body that was set up in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom, in 2005 to promote and develop the use of the Cornish language.
In the following sentence, Caesar says the Gauls outside the defences were in confusion, and those inside the defences equally so.
The decision to form the institute came about from a meeting in September 2000, in Miranda do Douro, where a number of persons interested in the language met, also passing the resolution to establish Mirandese under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
It coordinates with the General Commission of Terminology and Neologisms the development of terminology lists by the specialized committees of terminology and the French Academy.
After being placed within the Ministry for Chieftaincy and Religious Affairs, it received fewer contracts from the Ghana Education Service.
Another debate concerns whether the term semantic/discourse prosody only relates to positive/negative meaning (narrow definition) or to more complex attitudinal/functional meaning.
The original version of this article was translated, with adaptations, from the corresponding article on the Spanish-language Wikipedia.
As of 2009, the Academy had 23 regular members, 10 associated members, one permanent member, and 26 honor members.
145, CSLI, ISBN 978-1-57586-401-3 Sag, Ivan A; Wasow, Thomas; Bender, Emily (2003), Syntactic theory : a formal introduction, CSLI lecture notes, no.
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
Input frequencies Collostructional analysis requires frequencies of words and constructions and is similar to a wide variety of collocation statistics.
Diachronic corpus of Czech: the DIAKORP corpus of historical Czech includes texts from 14th century onwards.
In winter 2004 Rhodri Morgan, previous First Minister of Wales, announced his decision to abolish the Welsh Language Board.
Since 2005 HNK 105 million tokens and is composed of number of different subcorpora which can be searched individually and all together in a whole corpus.
Motor neurons In order to speak, the breathing system must be voluntarily repurposed to produce vocal sounds, which allows the breathing mechanisms to be temporarily deactivated in favor of song or speech production.
An acceptability judgment task, also called acceptability rating task, is a common method in empirical linguistics to gather information about the internal grammar of speakers of a language.
The Centre for the Greek Language acts as a coordinating, advisory and strategic organ of the Greek Ministry of Education on matters of language education and policy.
The Languages of Goa Part One: Hindi Edited by Madhavi Sardesai Part Two: English Edited by Madhavi Sardesai 9.
The whole corpus has a searchable tagging concerning lexical semantics (LS), including morphosemantic POS subclasses (proper noun, reflexive pronoun etc.), LS characteristics proper (thematic class, causativity, evaluation), derivation (diminutive, adverb formed from adjective etc.).
Jahrtausends nach Christus, […], begann, soweit die Runeninschriften erkennen lassen, das Nordische sich mit eigenen Neuerungen spürbar vom Westgermanischen abzuheben.
Meanwhile, the Tanganyika African National Union, fighting for freedom from colonial rule, had adopted Kiswahili as a language of mass organization and political revolution.
The first official session of the new corporation was held at the residence of Pacheco on 6 July 1713, an event that is recorded in the book of minutes, begun on 3 August 1713.
Limitations and misappropriates Despite being an excellent source of lexical information, the BNC can only really be used to study a limited set of grammatical patterns, particularly those which have distinctive lexical correlates.
Similar concepts Philosophy Concepts similar to the lexical hypothesis are basic to ordinary language philosophy.
The staff working at CELCT at the time of its closure is continuing their research activities within FBK.
Co-occurrence information and knowledge of co-occurring words may be relevant in analysis of language for the purposes of large language models, part of the emerging field of artificial intelligence, and helpful in word games such as scrabble.
References External links (in Icelandic) The Icelandic Language Institute Webpage Archived 2007-05-07 at the Wayback Machine English version (in Icelandic) Glossary Database English version The Icelandic Language Institute from randburg.com
Comparable variations would be British English, American English, and Indian English, that would be represented through a computer corpus.
Relevance The Eighth Schedule of the Constitution of India recognizes 22 scheduled languages, excluding English, and the linguistic policies and funding of the Indian government are organised around this information.
Sag received a Mellon Fellowship at Stanford University in 1978–79, and remained in California from that point on.
The BNC Sampler is a two-part sub-corpora, a part each for written and spoken data; each part contains one million words.
On May 25, 2017, Andrej Kibrik was elected the director of the Institute of Linguistics by the general meeting of the researchers.
CELCT was established in 2003 by FBK (Fondazione Bruno Kessler) and DFKI (Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Künstliche Intelligenz), and was funded by the Autonomous Province of Trento.
Some language councils are national and tied to a specific state, while councils without association to any country where the language is dominant also exist.
According to Yarowsky, for any sense to be clearly dominant, the occurrences of the target word should not be less than 4.
Academic career Clark earned her PhD in Linguistics in 1969, studying with John Lyons at the University of Edinburgh.
Slovak Language (Slovak: Slovenská reč), a scientific journal devoted to the research of the Slovak language.
The OQLF has been referred to in English as "tongue troopers" The term "language police" was possibly first used by the American television show 60 Minutes, which ran an investigative report on Quebec language laws.
The initial composition was divided in two constituents: 30-million corpus of contemporary Croatian (30m) where samples from texts from 1990 on were included.
Young children's uptake of new words in conversation Clark aimed to understand how children register words they haven't heard before by extracting the words and transcripts from five corpora (collection of written/spoken texts) (2007).
Tagging the corpus enabled far more sophisticated statistical analysis, such as the work programmed by Andrew Mackie, and documented in books on English grammar.
In addition to using and instead of to in order to avoid horror aequi, a strategy is to delay the second to + verb with intervening words.
For each year contained in the corpus (1990–2019), the corpus is evenly divided between six registers/genres: TV/movies, spoken, fiction, magazine, newspaper, and academic (see Texts and Registers page of the COCA website).
Collostructional analysis aims at measuring the degree of attraction or repulsion that words exhibit to constructions, where the notion of construction has so far been that of Goldberg's construction grammar.
After Sergei Starostin's death in 2005, the website has since been run by his son Georgiy Starostin.
Philologies Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship.
Creole Prototype Theory John McWhorter contributed to the LBH with his Creole Prototype Theory, which argues that creoles exhibit some features that may be used to distinguish them from other languages without referring to the socio-historical dimension.
Bucholtz was recognized in 2014 by the Society for Linguistic Anthropology with the Award for Public Outreach and Community Service.
Poole's research and development of this model came from researching why the phasic model did not work.
Organisation The university is divided into seven major faculties which offer approximately 50 undergraduate degree programmes and over 100 graduate programmes.
In order for schools to have teachers for the immersion program, schools must send requests for teachers to CODOFIL first, then CODOFIL select teachers from the list of applicants that fit with the schools' criteria for the immersion program and send them to teach the immersion programs there.
To initiate, assist or undertake publication in Konkani language of original and erudite papers, monographs, books, journal, as also of any other works in any other branch of knowledge.
Since its establishment, it has been operated by notable committees of Arabic language professors, scholars and experts who re-spread the use of Arabic in the state's institutions and daily life of many Arab countries by adapting widely accepted proceedings and records into Arabic.
Promotion of literature Organisation Literary symposium It supplies books to school and college libraries.
Also notable are the different English names of two Welsh towns named Dinbych ('little fort'); Denbigh and Tenby.
In 2003, Charles Reiss argued that feature geometry is insufficiently powerful to account for a class of phonological rules that involve dependencies between segments, such as partial and total identity and nonidentity.
TS Corpus is a Free&Independent Project that aims to build Turkish corpora, NLP tools and linguistic datasets...
For instance, The universal annotation approach for dependency treebanks; and the universal annotation approach for phrase structure treebanks.
Because its activities were organized in this way, and because it had to depend on uncertain sources of funding, the School from the outset had the character of a temporary expedient...
From 1953 until his retirement, on 31 December 1971, he served as cultural adviser in the German agencies in Lisbon, Dublin, Damascus, Bern and at the Holy See.
Foundation and activities BAKITA was founded by a parliamentary act in 1967 as organization dedicated to the development and advocacy of Kiswahili as a means of national integration in Tanzania.
In addition to their theoretical work the staff at the Centre for Lexicography have published more than 30 printed and electronic dictionaries, often in collaboration with external partners.
History The school has been instrumental in developing biosemiotics as a new perspective on the study of life, in the biological and environmental sciences.
In the peripheral areas to the northwest, on the other hand, a model of elite dominance may be the most fitting.
Attention is paid to the problems of linguistic typology and comparative and historical linguistics.
Words like "dawn" and "don" are pronounced similarly; different vowels that are pronounced with the same sound.
Established in 1994 by Government of Karnataka, it is an autonomous organisation functioning from its own building - Tulu Bhawana in Mangalore, Karnataka.
Co-occurrence in this linguistic sense can be interpreted as an indicator of semantic proximity or an idiomatic expression.
Ambartsumian in 2008, honoring the distinguished scientist who had served as the Academy's President for nearly fifty years.
In addition to regional subcorpora, there are subcorpora of works by authors of the Ukrainian diaspora (USA, Canada, Poland, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, etc.).
A corpus manager (corpus browser or corpus query system) is a tool for multilingual corpus analysis, which allows effective searching in corpora.
Activities The organisation carries out various activities for promotion of Odia language and literature.
It took its original name again on November 11, 2005, and again changed its name to its current form in October 2015.
Research Research on Dutch-Japanese studies was both supported and carried out by the institute, and formed the basis for a majority of their publications.
Fiction: (120 million words) Short stories and plays, first chapters of books 1990–present, and movie scripts.
Key activities of CHAKITA are directing research into Kiswahili language and literature in coordination with academic institutions and to develop Kiswahili so that it can be used as a means of national development.
The first six volumes were released at the Bhasha Vasudha Global Languages Conference in Vadodara on January 7, 2012.
The law empowered CODOFIL to "do any and all things necessary to accomplish the development, utilization, and preservation of the French language ...
The organisation was part-funded by the European Union's Objective One programme, the United Kingdom government's Department for Communities and Local Government and Cornwall Council.
Syntactic Parsing The sentence are parsed automatically and, if necessary, are manually corrected with ICECUP, a syntax tree editor created specifically for the corpus.
Contributors include a network of international specialists, with some of these experts responsible for a specific field of linguistics, while others cover the production of their home country.
People Thea Andrews (born 1973), Canadian journalist Thea Astley (1925–2004), Australian writer Thea Beckman (1923–2004), Dutch writer Thea Bock (1938–2025), German politician Thea Bowman (1937–1990), American nun Thea Dorn (born 1970), German writer Thea E.
The two basic categories of Macedonian onomastics are: Toponomastics Anthroponomastics Toponomastics Toponomastics is a branch of the onomastics that studies toponymy, or the names of the places, geographical terms, and their meaning and origin.
After the assimilation of the original Amapá people, the name was applied to immigrants, now known as the Karipuna do Amapá, whose language was not recorded but was reported to be Nheengatu, a Tupian language.
417–420 (http://www.blogg.org/blog-30140-date-2005-10-26.html Archived 2014-01-07 at the Wayback Machine) Burgin, M.
In Ottoman toponymic history a multitude of settlements with köy are attested, such as Boghaz Köy or Ermeni Köy.
Tommie is a masculine given name of English origin, occasionally a nickname or shortened form of Thomas, and is sometimes used as a feminine form of Thomas.
Gus is a masculine name, often a diminutive for Angus, August, Augustine, Gustave, Constantine, Konstantinos, Augusten, Gustavo, Gusten, Augustus, Aengus, Argus, Fergus, Gustav, Gustafson, Ferguson, and Gussie.
The name Eli (Hebrew: עֵלִי‎, Modern: ʿElī, Tiberian: ʿĒlī) also appears to refer to El in English, but contains ayin rather than aleph.
Women with the name Men with the name Nellie Briles (1943–2005), American baseball player Nelly Cruz (born 1980), Dominican-American professional baseball player Nellie Fox (1927–1975), American professional baseball player Nelly, stage name of American rapper Cornell Iral Haynes Jr.
Notable people referred to by this name include the following: See also All pages with titles beginning with Chas All pages with titles containing Chas Chas (disambiguation) Chal (name) Char (name) == References ==
In the edition published by Paul de Lagarde, the Latin work compiled by Jerome is titled slightly differently, Hieronymi de Situ et Nominibus Locorum Hebraicorum Liber ("Jerome's Book on the Location and Names of Hebrew Places").
It may be used a diminutive of any name containing "fred", regardless of origin, as with Freddy Adu and Freddie Benson, both Ghanaians named Fredua.
From this come technical terms such as areology, as well as the (rare) adjective Arean and the star name Antares.
The popular style of book title mark is called type B in Taiwan, while the angle brackets are the only acceptable style in China for modern day use.
It cost some 300 euros to replace each stolen sign, and the costs were reflected in the taxes that local residents paid.
1817), 45th Nizari imam Khalilullah Khalili (1907–1987), Afghan poet Khalil Ullah Khan (1934–2014), Bangladeshi actor Khalilullah (cricketer) (b.
Goralenvolk was a geopolitical term invented by the German Nazis in World War II in reference to the Goral highlander population of Podhale region in the south of Poland near the Slovak border.
Other clubs are more usually known by nicknames or contractions of their full names, for instance, Vasco da Gama is usually called simply Vasco, F.C.
Publication Traditionally, publication of definitive research is undertaken by printing a book or by publishing a one-name periodical.
Notable people with the name include: Gene Men Gene Abel, American psychiatrist and controversial clinician Gene Bradley (born 1957), American football player Gene A.
"Значение древнерусской ономастики для истории: к этимологии топонима Киев" [The significance of Old Russian onomastics for history: on the etymology of the toponym Kiev].
Dyvoet Deeford, exists in England as place and as a surname not to be confused with the village of Desford in Leicestershire.
Although Geert is a name in its own right, it is often the given name of persons who are formally called Gerard or Gerardus.
Names from classical antiquity such as Sophonisba were in greater use among some prominent families in the Southern United States during the 1700s and 1800s than they were elsewhere.
Richie Richard, from Bottom Richie Ryan, from Highlander Richie Tozier, from romance It Richie Underwood, from Dog House See also Ritchie (given name), includes a list of people with given name or surname Ritchie Ritchie (surname), includes a list of people with surname Ritchie Rishi (given name)
Jock, a fictional steam locomotive from The Railway Series book Jock the New Engine by Christopher Awdry See also Joc Pederson (born 1992), American Major League Baseball player All pages with titles beginning with Jock All pages with titles containing Jock
1, 2, Yekaterinburg, 2001), the fundamental Onomatology (Moscow, 2006) and many popular books about language for non-linguists.
Thus the late Archbishop Benson noted in his diary her "odd majesty and kindliness, which are very strong." But it is of course as a writer that Miss Yonge will be remembered.
Gligvi (Georgian: ღლიღვი, romanized: ghlighvi) is a medieval ethnonym used in Georgian, Russian and Western European sources in the 11-19 centuries.
From 1971 to 1981 he was a junior researcher in the toponymy group, and from 1976 to 1981 a senior researcher in the toponymy group of the dialect section.
Renee Fosset notes that Gustav Holm of the 1880s Danish polar expedition recorded east Greenlanders as describing Akilineq as a land far to the east, which by evidence Holm took to refer to Iceland.
It may also be the short form of other Italian names like Ambrogino or Luigino or Eugenio, which are from the Ancient Greek name Ambrosios (ἀμβρόσιος), which means "ever-living", and/or Eugenios (εὐγένιος), which means "well-born, noble".
The force was composed mainly of First World War British Army veterans, who wore distinctive Khaki British Army uniforms with dark RIC overcoats.
the Aśvaka or Aśvakayana, the name of the Aśvakan or Assakan, the ancient inhabitants of the Hindu Kush region.
The "Basic Annals of Xiang Yu" chapter in the book is about how Xiang Yu trusts his old-day relatives instead of his advisor Fan Zeng which leads to his defeat.
Usage Activists often portray Juan dela Cruz as a victim of American imperialism, especially since many editorial cartoons of the American period often depicted him alongside Uncle Sam either as a "Little Brown Brother" or as an Asian Partner.
Related terms have existed outside the French-speaking world: Godames was historically used in Brazil, while Gotama was used in East Africa.
Drower had interpreted it in reference to Zahreil, but arguing that Zahreil never left the World of Darkness.
Variants of the name include Ramesses (Ramessu) and Paramessu; these various spellings could be used to refer to the same person.
Representative from Pennsylvania Bob Ehrlich (born 1957), former governor of Maryland Bob Etheridge (born 1941), former U.S.
They intended to seek shelter with their allies the Crow but, upon the Crow's refusal to offer help, the Nez Perce tried to reach the camp in Canada of Lakota Chief Sitting Bull.
krakowskiego, 1967 Patronimiczne nazwy miejscowe w Małopolsce,1971 Słowotwórstwo polskich patronimicznych nazw miejscowych z przyrostkiem (ov)itjo- na tle zachodniosłowiańskim, 1973 Hydronimia dorzecza Orawy (together with M.
United States While the long titles of most acts of the US Congress read, "An Act to...", appropriations bills begin, "An Act making appropriations for...".
Michael, American political operative Molly Miller, American women's college basketball coach Molly Molloy (1940–2016), American dancer, choreographer, and teacher Molly Moore (disambiguation), several people Molly Morgan (c.
39.553°N 78.260°W﻿ / 39.553; -78.260, which has been re-designated by GNIS as Unnamed Lake on Tr-Sleepy Creek Dam.
Gloucester (1817–1883), American businesswoman Elisabeth Götze (born 1966), member of the National Council of Austria Elisabeth Grieg (born 1959), Norwegian businessperson Elizabeth Grierson (c.
The belief is that by following the Rectification of Names, one would be following the correct/right path.
Notable people with the name include: Hedy Bienenfeld (1907–1976), Austrian-American Olympic swimmer Hedy Burress (born c.
Laitman (1924–2020), American art collector and philanthropist Nanette Lepore (born 1964), American fashion designer Nanette S.
Preston, a prominent LDS Church authority who was an early settler of Cache Valley." Ramah* Ramah, New Mexico named after Cumorah also known as Ramah in the Book of Mormon.
Axiomatic definition Similar to set theory, named sets have axiomatic representations, i.e., they are defined by systems of axioms and studied in axiomatic named set theory.
In late 2016, the TGA changed several drug names to the corresponding international nonproprietary name (INN), or, in cases where an INN was not available (as with asparaginase), another established generic name, such as the United States Adopted Name (USAN).
To the Proto-Slavic singular form are closest Old Russian xorvaty (*xъrvaty) and German-Lusatian Curuuadi from 11th and 12th century sources, while the old plural form *Xъrvate is correctly reflected in Old Russian Xrovate, Xrvate, Church Slavonic xarьvate and Old Croatian Hrvate.
For their long attention he has left them a handsome legacy, and relatives and friends are not forgotten among the numerous legacies he left, his property being about 10,000l.
Taboos Edmund Leach argued in a classic 1964 paper that animal epithets are insulting when the animal in question is taboo, making its name suitable for use as an obscenity.
The name was among the 1,000 most popular names for girls born in the United States at different times between 1880 and 1935.
By the 12th century, Medieval Europeans used the term Saracen as both an ethnic and religious marker.
Ernie is a masculine given name, frequently a short form (hypocorism) of Ernest, Ernald, Ernesto, or Verner.
Women Zuleika "Zuzu" Angel (1921–1976), Brazilian fashion designer Züleyxa "Zuzu" Izmailova (born 1985), Estonian-Azerbaijani journalist, environmental activist and politician Zuzu Zakaria, Norwegian-Azerbaijani singer and producer (born c.
More often today, the Austuriani are recognized as the product of local social transformation, given the association of the name with the same space over two centuries.
Historical figures and derived uses Herodians There were three princes by the name Phasael in the Herodian dynasty: Phasael I (died 40 BCE), the elder brother of Herod the Great; Phasael II, his son; and Phasael III, a son of Herod the Great and father of Cypros, wife of Agrippa I.
References External links Media related to Cosmographia at Wikimedia Commons Waldseemüller's map at the Library of Congress (includes downloadable digital image) Digital reconstruction of Waldseemüller's globe, 1507-2007 (animation)
Despite its popularity in informal usage, the name is rarely recorded on birth certificates in countries such as Belarus, the Czech Republic, Russia, Slovakia, and Ukraine, as it is considered a diminutive, not a formal name.
The name was rendered in many different spellings in Greek, in the masculin form mainly as Φασάηλος, Phasaelos, which in Latin became Phasaelus.
Kazimierz Rymut (18 December 1935 in Chechły near Ropczyce - 14 November 2006, Kraków) was a Polish linguist, onomastician.
It is a loanword from Persian gūy (or probably more likely kūy), which originally means "path, street".
Selected works Since 1933, Beneš published articles about Czech surnames in specialised journals (as Naše řeč or Zpravodaj místopisné komise ČSAV, ZMK).
The Scandinavian version compares the name with the Swedish: sambåd, a term which in medieval Sweden designated a place for gathering tribute for the leidang, a naval military expedition.
Morse (1791–1872), the Irish writer Samuel Beckett (1906–89) and the American author Samuel Clemens (1835–1910), who wrote under the pen name Mark Twain.
See also List of language names References Sources External links Coby Lubliner (2006): Adventures in Glossonymy
Florrie is also a nickname for Florence or Flora and may refer to: People Florrie Burke (1918–1995), Irish footballer Florrie R.
The term is also used in this sense by the Black Female Professors Forum, a primarily-online informal network for highlighting both the presence and absence of senior women professors who are not white.
With Ruff Ruffman Chet, from Total Drama Presents: The Ridonculous Race Chet "The Rocket" Steadman, from the film Rookie of the Year Chester "Chet" Desmond, from Fire Walk with Me Chet Kaminski, from Ash vs Evil Dead Chet Shaft, from Scott the Woz Chet, from Fallout: New Vegas Dr.
In 1860, very few buffalo were left, and the Niitsitapi became completely dependent on government supplies.
Evgeny Krupnov, Adrienne Mayor) connect the ethnonym to either Gargareans or to Gelae (Ivane Javakhishvili, Arnold Chikobava).
The meaning of köy within the concept of an open village contrasts with that of the word kasaba, which refers to a small town.
Tepperman, in the 1982–1983 sitcom Square Pegs Muffy Mouse, in the 1980s Canadian children's television series Today's Special Muffy, in the 1986 horror film April Fool's Day Muffy St.
A common suggestion, first presented by Jouko Vahtola, is that kven etymologically originates from Old Norse hvein, meaning "swampy land." Nevertheless, kven is a root which in some cases translates to "woman" in Old Norse.
Black, Asian and minority ethnic, a similar contested grouping in the UK Global majority, an umbrella term in the UK that has grown in popularity since the 2010s.
It is a combination of Dora with the suffix -een, which is related to the -ín suffix used in Irish, usually signifying small size or as an endearment.
1967–2015), a commander of the Provisional IRA from Northern Ireland Richard Jock Kinneir (1917–1994), British typographer and graphic designer who, with Margaret Calvert, designed many of the road signs used throughout the United Kingdom Jock D.
In Ezra 10:26 Abdi is the son of Elam, and one of a long list of men who had married foreign wives, and who then sent them away together with their children.
Flanders Wallonia Brussels See also Names of Belarusian places in other languages Names of Lithuanian places in other languages
The main reason for the SDA to adopt the Bosniak identity, only three years after expelling the supporters of the idea from their party ranks, was due to foreign policy considerations.
Zack (and variant spellings Zach, Zac, Zak, Zakk) is sometimes a given name, but more often it is a hypocorism or short form of another given name, usually Zachary in the English speaking world, which derives from Zechariah.
Historian Clifford Edmund Bosworth defines "Afghan" primarily as a historical ethnonym for the Pashtun people.
Use in Britain "Brown" has become an increasingly common identity for individuals of South Asian and Horn African heritage, mainly due to American and Canadian influence.
Devoted to the High church, she was much influenced by John Keble, Vicar of Hursley from 1835, a near neighbour and one of the leaders of the Oxford Movement.
Dash or DASH may also refer to: Brands and enterprises Dash (boutique), a boutique clothing and accessory chain Dash (detergent) Amazon Dash, a consumer goods ordering service from Amazon.com DoorDash, an online food ordering and delivery company which trades on the Nasdaq as DASH Mrs.
Fox Walt Lloyd, on the television series Lost Walt Longmire, on the television series Longmire Walt Stone, from the series The Kane Chronicles Walt Wallet, in the newspaper comic strip Gasoline Alley See also Van der Walt, a list of people with the surname
His study of this material revealed a great number of substrate phenomena from Uralic languages and extended our knowledge of the formal and semantical development of toponyms as well as of the ancient state of the Uralic languages.
Elizabeth became popularised during the late medieval period as a given name, mostly influenced by two saints: St.
Baz is a surname, given name and nickname, often a short form (hypocorism) of Basil or Barry in English.
14th century) Fyodor Rostislavich, also known as Duke Theodore Rostislavich, Fyodor the Black or Fyodor Chermny (c.1230s – d.
Delaplane (died 1900), American politician Theodore Delevoryas (1929–2017), American paleobotanist Theodore Dieckmann (1853–1919), American politician and businessman Theodore C.
Many individuals have much more fanciful signatures than their normal cursive writing, including elaborate ascenders, descenders and exotic flourishes, much as one would find in calligraphic writing.
Until the time of Muhammad, the deported Children of Israel of the east continually increased in number in the countries around Ghor which included Kabul, Kandahar and Ghazni and made wars with the infidels around them.
Currently, the USAN Council has five members, one from each sponsoring organization, one from the FDA, and a member-at-large.
Scott (1879–1965), British painter, illustrator and comics artist Sep Smith (1912–2006), English footballer Sep Vanmarcke (born 1988), Belgian road racing cyclist Sep Visser (born 1990), Dutch international rugby union player
Some government agencies require that professional persons or official reviewers sign originals and all copies of originals to authenticate that they personally viewed the content.
The feminine placeholder is usually María dela Cruz, which like Juan is a common first name among Filipino women, though Juana dela Cruz is currently gaining popularity in Philippine television and especially in political campaigns by President Bongbong Marcos.
Qais had three sons, Sarban, Bettan and Ghourghusht, who are progenitors of the various Pashtun tribes.
In Arabic pronunciation, "Judie" is rendered as "جودي" (pronounced Jūdī), which may phonetically resemble the Arabic word "كرمى" (karamī), meaning "my generosity." However, the two terms are unrelated etymologically.
Chairman of the Board of the Guild of Linguistic Experts on Documentation and Information Disputes (2001).
Rod is a common diminutive (hypocorism) of various masculine given names, including Rodney, Roderick, Rodford and Rodion.
Therefore, it is highly desirable to the pharmaceutical company, the various nomenclature committees, and the medical community in general that a global name be established for each new single-entity compound introduced.
Mattson (1927–1998), American chemist and journalist Howard Metzenbaum (1917–2008) American politician and businessman Howard Morris (1919–2005), American actor, comedian, and director Howard T.
Early life and education Jaak Simm was born in Tartu, Estonia, the son of Elmar Simm (1904–1972) and Õie Simm (née Tillmann, 1912–2002).
Ptolemy's 2nd-century work, Geography, describes Sarakēnḗ (Ancient Greek: Σαρακηνή) as a region in the northern Sinai Peninsula.
It is thus related to many other feminine given names, including Dorian, Dorinda, Theodora and Isidora.
McMahan (1924–2009), American entomologist Elizabeth Midlarsky (died 2023), American psychologist Elizabeth Murchison, British-Australian geneticist Elizabeth Ann Nalley (born 1942), American chemist Elizabeth Nance, American chemical engineer Elizabeth F.
Getzoff, American biochemist Elisabeth Giacobino (born 1946), French physicist Elisabeth Gidengil, Canadian political scientist Elizabeth V.
Mikhail Viktorovich Gorbanevsky (Russian: Михаи́л Ви́кторович Горбане́вский; 21 May 1953 – 20 September 2025) was a Soviet and Russian linguist.
Its usage probably dates back to the foundation of Wallachia, though it spread to Moldavia only in the 15th century.
Tharu women of central and eastern Nepal celebrate Jitiya, which is one of the most important Tharu festivals.
Cretz (born 1950), American politician Gene Davidson (1896–1960), American football and baseball player Gene Englund (1917–1995), American professional basketball player Gene F.
Variant name is a term used to specify the name of a geographic feature that is not the primary name used for that feature.
The term was also used to refer to one or several trading sites where the Inuit and neighbouring peoples would meet, by the Akilineq Hills at the mouth of the Thelon River, or on the north shores of Lake Aberdeen.
The Austuriani or Austoriani were a Berber people who lived along the frontier of the Roman Empire in Africa.
Dooley, American government official Eliza Doolittle (singer) (born 1988 as Eliza Sophie Caird), British singer Eliza Douglas, American painter Eliza Draper (1744–1778), British writer Eliza T.
Amenirdis (or Amonardis; masculine ỉmn-ỉr-dỉ-sw – Amenirdisu, feminine ỉmn-ỉr-dỉ-st – Amenirdiset; gendered endings were mostly not pronounced by the time the name was popular) is an ancient Egyptian name meaning "he/she was given by Amun".
Kézai wrote that the Vlachs gave script to the Székelys, but the reality is different, because Kézai wrote about the Székelys runs, and his opinion was based on the observation that the Vlach shepherds engraved symbols while counting their sheep.
A-Train (comics) / Reggie Franklin, a superhero in the television franchise The Boys Regina "Reggie" Lampert, in the 1963 film Charade, played by Audrey Hepburn Reggie Mantle, in the Archie comics Reggie Montgomery, from the soap opera All My Children Reggie Pepper, in seven short stories by P.
It became a loanword in other South Asian languages to give similar means, such as in Tamil in which the word is maidhanam.
Non-rigid designators are defined by contrast with Kripke's notion of a rigid designator, which picks out the same thing uniquely in every possible world; while there are possible worlds in which the 43rd President of the United States is Al Gore instead of George W.
In North America and Australia (where approximately 70 per cent of native English speakers reside), soccer is the primary term.
Negrito (or Semang), generally located in the northern portion of the peninsula, were short dark-skinned nomadic hunter-gatherers with Asiatic facial features and tightly curly hair.
Zenobius in Latin, Zanobi in Italian, Zinobi/Zinobiy (Зенобий) in Bulgarian, Zinovi/Zinoviy in Russian (as well as the surname Zinovyev), and Zenob in Armenian, derive from it.
"Jodie", a song by Saves the Day from the album Can't Slow Down (1998) "Jodie", a song by SZA from the 2022 deluxe edition of the album Ctrl (2017) See also Jodee Nimerichter, American arts administrator
The feminine Veronica is derived from a form of Berenice, which is derived from the Greek Berenikē and Pherenīkē and means "victory bringer".
1st century BC), princess from the Kingdom of Pontus and through marriage a Roman client queen of Cappadocia Athenais of Media Atropatene (fl.
Count Fritz von Tarlenheim, in Anthony Hope's novel The Prisoner of Zenda, its sequel, Rupert of Hentzau, and various film adaptations.
Erich Klostermann published a scholarly eclectic edition of the manuscript in 1904, using in addition four other manuscripts.
Because of the British origin of the modern game and the prevalence of the English language, many clubs, even outside Europe, have their names written in English.
In many countries, signatures must be made, witnessed and recorded in the presence of a notary public to carry legal force in specific contexts.
Since 1993 no one in Sweden has been baptised as Gert according to the Swedish Bureau of Census, so the name is becoming increasingly rare.
2007–2009), Deputy Minister of Interior for Counter-Narcotics and former Governor of Badakhshan, Afghanistan Baz Bamigboye, British journalist Baz Muhammad Khan (fl.
It is often short for Mildred, Amelia, Emily, Millicent, Camilla, Camila, Camille, Camile, Emilia, etc.
Israelite presence in Canaan was also established before Joshua's conquests according to a few biblical traditions.
Eleazar (Hebrew: אלעזר or Elazar, meaning "God has helped", el'azár) is a common Jewish masculine given name.
It is also the English name for the female of several species of animal, including the deer and the rabbit, derived from the Old English dā, related to dēon ("to suck").
Camulodunum (Latin), now Colchester, Essex - from *kamulos 'Camulus' (divine name) + Celtic *dūnon 'fortress' Catterick, North Riding of Yorks., *catu ("battle") + *ratis ("rampart") + onjon (suffix).
However it is not now known which river they explored, so Willems River cannot be placed on a present-day map.
Spanish/Caló The word passed from Caló to Spanish slang as gachó (masculine) / gachí (feminine), acquiring the generalized meaning "man, guy" / "woman, girl".
Italo-Normans were the primary Norman mercenaries in the employ of the Byzantine emperors, and many found service in Rome under the pope.
(1944–2012), American attorney and politician Louie Kelcher (born 1953), American former National Football League player Louie E.
During a visit of Nazi Governor-General Hans Frank to Podhale on 7 November 1939 they proposed to establish a separate state for Goralenvolk.
The various forms are based on the Greek (Ραμεσσυς: Ramessus), Latin (Ramesses), or Hebrew (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) forms of the name, all ultimately based on the Ancient Egyptian form: rˁ-ms-sw (𓅭𓇳) "Ra [is] the one who gave birth [to] him".
It may refer to: People Tad Boyle (born 1963), University of Colorado men's basketball head coach and former player Tad Crawford (born 1984), Canadian Football League player Tad Devine (born 1955), American political consultant Tad Dorgan (1877–1929), American cartoonist Edward T.
Among those that are included in this small group, several can be shown to be derivations of Gaelic personal names or surnames.
A United States Adopted Name (USAN) is a unique nonproprietary name assigned to a medication marketed in the United States.
Horrie is a masculine given name, typically used in Australia as a hypocorism (pet name) for Horace, as well as a surname.
It may refer to: Sepandar Kamvar (born 1977), American computer scientist, artist, author and entrepreneur Sep Lambert (1876–1959), Irish cricketer Sep Ledger (1889–1917), South African rugby union player Sep Ruf (1908–1982), German architect and designer Sep E.
Some of those attempts were made as a result of misunderstanding, by referencing to official UNESCO documents, that used those terms in their proper meaning, as designations for language names, thus revealing the lack of bases for the proposed alternative uses.
He passed away peacefully, unnoticed and unknown, in the house in which he had lodged for some years, No.
(2005) A Unified Approach to Data Representation, in Proceedings of the 2005 International Conference on Foundations of Computer Science, CSREA Press, Las Vegas, pp.
He was a full member of the Russian Geographical Society (1977) and an Academician of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (2007).
1725), also known as January Conny, European name given to an Ahanta chief from Axim, Ghana Robert Conny (1646?–1713), English physician See also Socker-Conny, a comic book character created by Joakim Pirinen Connie (disambiguation)
1931), Swiss figure skater Fictional characters Susy Hendrix, blind character played by Audrey Hepburn in Wait Until Dark (film) See also Susie (disambiguation) Susi (disambiguation) Sussy (disambiguation) Suzi (disambiguation) Suzie (disambiguation) Suzy (disambiguation)
Internazionale Milan is contracted to Inter or Inter Milan, Sporting Clube de Portugal is often called Sporting.
Notable people with the name include: Denis of Paris (3rd century), French bishop and Christian martyr Denis (bishop of Győr) (13th century), Hungarian prelate Denis, son of Ampud (died 1236), Hungarian baron Denis the Carthusian (1402-1471), Roman Catholic theologian and mystic Denis of Hungary (c.
The Hungarian people, most valiant and most powerful in the tasks of war thus originated, as we said above, from the Scythian people that is called in its own language Dentumoger.
Exceptions are Croatia, Germany, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Switzerland.
See also Fritz, a chess program Frits, another given name Frit, a ceramic composition == References ==
a proper name (proprium nomen), a demonstrative pronoun (pronomen demonstrativum) or a demonstrative pronoun with a common name (cum termino communi).
His studies include general and Russian onomastics, toponymy and lexicology, forensic linguistic expertise, Slavic studies and speech culture, Russian language in computer technologies.
Its new name was criticized by historian Johanes Christiono, due to the lack of national or local laws or regulations regarding renaming of cultural heritage objects.
1997–present), American music editor and composer Micha Lindenstrauss (1937–2019), Israeli judge and State Comptroller of Israel between 2005 and 2012 Micha Marah (born 1953), Belgian singer and actress Micha Østergaard (born 1987), Danish former swimmer Micha Peled (fl.
The above methods can be combined, hierarchically or singly, to create other generation schemes which guarantee uniqueness.
Amy Alden, the main character and 13-year-old daughter of Aliane and Tom Alden in the film Fly Away Home.
It may come comes from a combination of two words: from the Old Armenian word ալավ (alav) meaning flame, fire[1], and from the Old Armenian երդ (erd) meaning roof, figuratively meaning house, family.
Geert is a Dutch given name of Germanic origin, equivalent to the German Gerd and the English Gerry.
Wodehouse Reggie Perrin, the main character in The Fall and Rise of Reginald Perrin novel and 1970s television series, as well as the 2000s Reggie Perrin television series Reggie, a character from the adult swim series based on the 2015 web series The Jellies!
The term often connotes an attempt to impress others; it is usually regarded negatively, and under certain circumstances may constitute a breach of professional ethics.
Tools While most one-name studies are conducted as a pastime, rather than as an economic activity, the sheer volume of information to be organised may require semi-professional data-processing and publishing skills.
The book includes the reason for using the name America in the wall map and the globe, and contains a Latin translation of the four journeys of Amerigo Vespucci as an appendix.
A tribal name is a name of an ethnic tribe —usually of ancient origin, which represented its self-identity.
See also Wili (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Wili Willi, a given name Willye, given name William (name) Willies (disambiguation), includes a list of people with the name Willies All pages with titles containing willie All pages with titles containing Willy
Biblical variants include Yehonathan, Y'honathan, Yhonathan, Yonathan, Yehonatan, Yonatan, Yonaton, Yonoson, Yeonoson or Yehonasan.
Habibullah (Arabic: حَبِيْبَُ ٱلله) also spelled Habib Ullah, Habibollah, Habeeb-Allah, is a male Muslim given name meaning in Beloved of God, stemming from the male form of the name Habib.
Sometimes, the term ecodomonym (from Ancient Greek: δόμος, domos) is used to refer specifically to a building as an inhabited place.
Distribution of Orang Asli tribes by state: According to the 2006 census, the number of Orang Asli was 141,230.
The name of the GTP railway station usually became the name of the town that developed in close proximity to it.
In this context, the "speaker" assumes the role of a "panicking Jew" who reacts to an event that would reveal Jewish "manipulations" or Jewish "deceitfulness".
Despite the hostilities, the Blackfoot stayed largely out of the Great Plains Indian Wars, neither fighting against nor scouting for the United States Army.
First element from Celtic *windo- 'white' (Welsh gwyn); in Vindolanda, Celtic *landā 'land, place' (Welsh llan).
This leads up to the lion simile at the end of the Odyssey, where in Book 22 Odysseus kills all Penelope's suitors.
Jonathan (Hebrew: יְהוֹנָתָן/יוֹנָתָן‎, Standard: Yehōnatan/Yōnatan, Tiberian: Yŏhōnāṯān/Yōnāṯān) is a common name given to males which means "YHWH has given" in Hebrew.
Mohism and Legalism Because the rectification of names in the Analects of Confucius appears to have been written later, the rectification of names has been argued in western sinology to have earlier have originated in Mozi (470–391 BC).
1986) See also All pages with titles beginning with Amedeo for people with the first name Amedeo All pages with titles beginning with Amédéo for people with the first name Amédéo Amadea (disambiguation) Amadee (disambiguation) Amadeo (disambiguation) Amadeus (disambiguation) Amédée (disambiguation)
Likewise, in Cyder, Ambrose Philips refers to Milton as "that other bard" and contrasts Milton to his character Abdiel.
It may refer to: People Fictional characters See also All pages with titles containing Chuck Chucky (name) Chucky (disambiguation) Chuckles (disambiguation) Charlie (disambiguation) Charley (disambiguation) Charles (disambiguation) Chuckii Booker Chuckey Charles
Later uses Crusades and later uses in the Levant In the eastern Mediterranean during the Crusades, the term Franks served as an all-inclusive designation for all Western Europeans, applied not only to the crusaders themselves but also for their descendants, who formed the ruling population.
The adjectival form of Latin Mars is Martius, from which the English word Martian derives, used as an adjective or for a putative inhabitant of Mars, and Martial, used as an adjective corresponding to Terrestrial for Earth.
Fedir (Ukrainian: Федір FEHD-ihr) is a masculine Ukrainian name meaning "gift of God" or "God-given" derived from the Ancient Greek name Theodoros.
In the East African Bantu languages mzungu has come to mean any white European but more often than not especially the British or English, due to their prior presence in the region.
The map consists of twelve sections printed from woodcuts combined with metal types, each measuring 18 x 24.5 inches (46 x 62 cm).
1990–present), Irish Gaelic football coach and former player Dessie Finnegan, 21st century Gaelic footballer Dessie Glynn (1928–2017), Irish footballer Dessie Gorman (born 1964), Irish former footballer Dessie Grew (1953–1990), member of the Provisional Irish Republican Army Dessie Hughes (c.
Manny is a given name or common nickname for the given names Manuel, Manuela, Herman, Norman, Manfred, and others.
Their main political party, the Party of Democratic Action, rejected the idea of Bosniak identity and managed to expel those who promoted it.
This algorithm is based on a modification of entropy compression: it randomly selects letters from a k-letter alphabet to generate a ⁠ ( k + 1 ) {\displaystyle (k+1)} ⁠-ary square-free word.
Jan Hajič: Reliving the history: the beginnings of statistical machine translation and languages with rich morphology, IceTAL'10 Proceedings of the 7th international conference on Advances in natural language processing, Springer-Verlag Berlin, Heidelberg, 2010.
It is the verb form which functions as a noun, naming an "action or state without reference to who does it or when".
Bulgarian) Five-plus term systems: visual sensory, nonvisual sensory, inferential, reportative, assumed (e.g.
A related meaning shift is metonymy, where one builds a new concept out of an element of the original concept.
Old English speakers commonly addressed family and close friends with "min <Name>", for example, "min Ed".
Hacking wrote, "The authoritative Encyclopedia of Philosophy (1967) devoted six careful and informative pages to the paradigm-case argument...
It is closely related to valency, which considers other arguments in addition to transitive objects.
Accepting only unambiguous and valid input is a more formal requirement than input validation or sanitization, and narrows the number of possible but unanticipated program states that can be induced in an application via user input.
The approach of Noam Chomsky and his fellow generative grammarians is that of an autonomous mental faculty that it is governed by mental processes operating on mental representations of different kinds of symbols that apply only within this faculty.
While most modern linguistic theories make reference to such relations in one form or another, the general term, as well as the terms for specific relations, varies: "participant role", "semantic role", and "deep case" have also been employed with similar sense.
Etymology and meanings The word reference is derived from Middle English referren, from Middle French référer, from Latin referre, "to carry back", formed from the prefix re- and ferre, "to bear".
In the concrete syntax, quoted and bracketed terminals have backslash escapes, so that "line feed or carriage return" may be written [\n\r].
Most of the syntactic innovations of GPSG were subsequently incorporated into head-driven phrase structure grammar.
"Well, would you listen to that?" acts as a question, requesting that a listener heed what is being said by the speaker, but also as an exclamation of disbelief or shock.
Their book Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar, published in 1985, is the main monograph on GPSG, especially as it applies to English syntax.
The power of trace theory stems from the fact that the algebra of dependency graphs (such as Petri nets) is isomorphic to that of trace monoids, and thus, one can apply both algebraic formal language tools, as well as tools from graph theory.
Obligatory possession is a linguistic phenomenon that is common in languages whose nouns are inflected for possessor, and some words, commonly kinship terms and body parts, cannot occur without a possessor in those languages.
Associativity is a grammatical category which expresses the meaning "X and the group (of one or more members) associated with X", where X is a nominal, typically of human reference.
It consists of clustering words, which are semantically similar and can thus bear a specific meaning.
If, in general, something is true in all precisifications, supervaluationism describes it as "supertrue", while something false in all precisifications is described as "superfalse".
Limitations There are very few syntacticians who would consider themselves to be practitioners of APG or its descendants.
An indeterminate pronoun is a pronoun which can show a variety of readings depending on the type of sentence it occurs in.
Peirce's original words are the following: A common mode of estimating the amount of matter in a ...
An answer to this question that has recently come to light is expressed in terms of the catena unit, as implied above.
But semantic fields do not stand in relations of opposition to each other, nor do they derive their distinctiveness in this way, nor indeed are they securely bounded at all.
However, the tautology L p ∨ ¬ L p {\displaystyle L\;p\lor \lnot L\;p} is evaluated to True {\displaystyle {\text{True}}} by every classical valuation; it is hence super-true.
Name The name is a play on Whiffenpoofs, an a cappella singing group established at Yale University in 1909.
Term relations are usually referred to simply by their number in the hierarchy rather than full names like "subject" and "direct object".
Use and consequences The Myhill–Nerode theorem may be used to show that a language L {\displaystyle L} is regular by proving that the number of equivalence classes of ∼ L {\displaystyle \sim _{L}} is finite.
Furthermore, research using the method of electroencephalography has shown that a difficulty or irritation in musical as well as in linguistic syntax elicit ERPs which are similar to each other.
The missionaries, who certainly travelled to Kanara as well, must have realized the infelicity of the term, but, not being philologists, continued to follow the current practice.
Let A = { a 1 , … , a n } {\displaystyle A=\{a_{1},\ldots ,a_{n}\}} be a set of generators, and let M ( A ) {\displaystyle M(A)} be the free magma over A {\displaystyle A} .
For instance, to eat is naturally divalent, as in he eats an apple, but may be reduced to monovalency in he eats.
A bilingual pun is a pun created by a word or phrase in one language sounding similar to a different word or phrase in another language.
For larger multiples a cardinal number and a counter are used instead, such as "five portions" or "a portion five times the normal size" instead of "a quintuple portion".
Semantic holism is a theory in the philosophy of language to the effect that a certain part of language, be it a term or a complete sentence, can only be understood through its relations to a (previously understood) larger segment of language.
Lenition can happen both synchronically (within a language at a particular point in time) and diachronically (as a language changes over time).
Synonymy requires the sharing of a sememe or seme, but the semantic field is a larger area surrounding those.
Examples: strong: guter Wein (nom) guten Wein (acc) gutem Wein (dat) - adjectives signal case with unambiguous inflections.
So when Moses was warned, the word "ra" can mean the sun god stands in the way, or evil stands in the way.
In the constituency-based structures, left-branching is present (but not really visible) in so far as the non-head daughter is to the left of the head.
This gives rise to vacuous truths such as, "if 2+2=5, then this Wikipedia article is accurate", which is true regardless of the contents of this article, because the antecedent is false.
John calls grammar the "idiom of philosophers" and analyzes the modes using Aristotle's Metaphysics.
Indeed, Habermas himself is always careful to formulate his work as a research project, open to refinement.
When this situation occurs, the initial 1 is instead demoted to a chômeur (from the French for an unemployed person); such dependents are also said to be en chômage.
It can be considered the first book ever printed in Greek, since it bears a Greek title-page and the text contains large parts in the language.
P/poly Although not all languages in P/poly are sparse, there is a polynomial-time Turing reduction from any language in P/poly to a sparse language.
Prior to the widespread use of word processors, a bullet was often denoted by an asterisk; several word processors automatically convert asterisks to bullets if used at the start of line.
These features may in some instances be realised morphologically, in which case they may also be called morphosemantic features.
An illocutionary act is the act a speaker performs in saying something, characterised by its illocutionary force: for example, asserting that something is the case, asking a question, issuing an order, giving a warning, or making a promise.
The double vertical line ( || ) is used to represent the salt bridge, which is used to maintain electrical neutrality within the electrochemical cell.
The final phrase of the third example does not include a definite location, such as "across the yard" or "over the fence"; rewriting to add one completes the sentence's parallelism.
Paragrammatism is roughly synonymous with "word salad," which concerns the semantic coherence of speech rather than its production.
A capitonym is a form of homograph and – when the two forms are pronounced differently – is also a form of heteronym.
Exceptions to these rules include könnyű (easy), which becomes könnyebb (easier) instead of könnyűbb, and szép (beautiful), which becomes szebb (more beautiful) instead of szépebb.
(However, Hebrew does have the guttural R consonant /ʁ/ which is the voiced counterpart of /χ/ and sounds similar to Mizrahi Hebrew's fricative variant of [ɡ] ḡimel as well as Arabic's غ ġayn, both of which are [ɣ~ʁ].
For instance, the English sentence "Pat is a fluffy cat" entails the sentence "Pat is a cat" since one cannot be a fluffy cat without being a cat.
All players must be able to recognize a "well-formed formula" (WFF in Łukasiewicz notation), to assemble dice values into valid statements (WFFs) and to apply the rules of logical inference so as to complete a proof.
the nominative case in many languages) tend to be less likely to have markers, but this is not true for all languages (compare Latin).
In linguistics, a marker is a free or bound morpheme that indicates the grammatical function of the marked word, phrase, or sentence.
In modern linguistics, the term periphrasis is typically used for examples like "more happy": the use of one or more function words to express meaning that otherwise may be expressed by attaching an affix or clitic to a word.
Example sentences will be taken from either the Evengus (Russian: Эвенгус) website, or from Nadezhda Bulatova and Lenore Grenoble's book Evenki Grammar in 1997.
In formal language theory, a picture language is a set of pictures, where a picture is a 2D array of characters over some alphabet.
The proposition "Pegasus likes licorice", for example, is often interpreted as having no truth-value given the assumption that the name "Pegasus" fails to refer.
Semantic (Web) Technology In Action: Ontology Driven Information Systems For Search, Integration and Analysis.
The free monoid on a given alphabet is the monoid whose elements are all the strings of zero or more elements from that set, with string concatenation as the monoid operation and the empty string as the identity element.
It is possible to count the number c ( n ) {\displaystyle c(n)} of ternary square-free words of length n.
Examples of phonemic or distinctive features are: [+/- voice ], [+/- ATR ] (binary features) and [ CORONAL ] (a unary feature; also a place feature).
In French, l-vocalization of the sequence /al/ resulted in the diphthong /au/, which was monophthongized, yielding the monophthong /o/ in Modern French.
In some languages, such as English, or Russian, a rising declarative is a sentence which is syntactically declarative but is understood as a question by the use of a rising intonation.
History The origin of the field theory of semantics is the lexical field theory introduced by Jost Trier in the 1930s, although according to John Lyons it has historical roots in the ideas of Wilhelm von Humboldt and Johann Gottfried Herder.
An object y is called a "normal form of x" if x → ∗ y {\displaystyle x{\stackrel {*}{\rightarrow }}y} , and y is irreducible.
Because of the above corollary, one may define a normal form y of x as an irreducible y with the property that x ↔ ∗ y {\displaystyle x{\stackrel {*}{\leftrightarrow }}y} .
(Maybe they exist in other universes, and these universes are other "possible worlds"—possible alternatives to the actual world.) Perhaps some actual things are nonexistent.
For example, profinite words are used to give an alternative characterization of the algebraic notion of a variety of finite semigroups.
As Tarski himself noted using other terminology, serious difficulties arise if strings are construed as tokens rather than types in the sense of Peirce's type-token distinction.
Disagreements of this kind may arise in areas of evaluative discourse, such as aesthetics, justification of beliefs or moral values, etc.
Superlatives are made through comparisons with sab ("all") with the instrumental postposition se as the suffix.
-Soever and -so relative words As relative words, forms ending -soever and -so are old-fashioned variants of the -ever forms.
In Celtic languages such as Welsh, a verb-noun (or verbnoun) is used to refer to the basic form of a verb and is the form usually listed in a dictionary (for example, in the 'Modern Welsh Dictionary').
At the top end of the scale are combinations whose meaning is fully transparent; at the bottom end are said to be semantically opaque (in noun form: semantic opacity).: p.
Thomas Sheridan's lectures on elocution, collected in Lectures on Elocution (1762) and his Lectures on Reading (1775), provided directions for marking and reading aloud passages from literature.
Phenomenon An example from Swedish is Pannkakor är nyttigt 'Pancakes are healthy': While pannkakor is the plural form of a common (gender) word, nyttigt is in its neuter singular form.
A similar phenomenon also occurs in Hebrew, where the copula (and adjectives) appear to disagree with the subject.
Other examples The prevention of sound change by a lost consonant in Lahu; In Estonian and some other Uralic languages, when case endings are elided, the changed root indicates the presence of the case, see consonant gradation.
"few-few")—a vocabulary word "белый-белый (снег)" ([ˈbʲɛlɨj ˈbʲɛlɨj (sʲnʲɛk)]; "very white (snow)", lit.
2015 – Fourth GF Summer School (Gozo, Malta) The fourth GF summer school was held on Gozo island in Malta.
Literature Unintentional bilingual puns occur in translations of one of Shakespeare's plays: Henry V.
This leads to the rule of semantic interpretation that takes pronouns and changes them into bound variables.
Logically atomic empirical sentences such as "John kissed Mary" have truthmakers, typically events or tropes corresponding to the main verbs of the sentences in question.
Assuming the missing VP must be essentially identical to an antecedent VP leads to a problem, first noticed by Bouton (1970): John read every book that Mary did read every book that Mary did read every book that Mary did read every book etc..
Recursive categorical syntax Recursive Categorical Syntax (RCS), also known as algebraic syntax, is a linguistic framework that integrates concepts from algebra and category theory to model sentence structure and linguistic relationships.
The term was coined by Rudolf Carnap when he reformulated semantic definitions of terms as postulates in the object language of a system of logic, in order to explicate the concept of analyticity.
For example, the grammar (terminal and nonterminal symbols indicated by lower and upper case initials, respectively) with the rules is transformed to the set inclusion system (constants and variables indicated by lower and upper case initials, respectively): This system has a minimal solution, viz.
Anti-priming Anti-priming is a measurable impairment in processing information owing to recent processing of other information when the representations of information overlap and compete.
The b-predicates are, however, more periphrastic than the a-predicates since they contain more words.
Descriptive Lexical Semantics Definition In the field of lexical semantics, semantic transparency (in adjective form: semantically transparent) is a measure of the degree to which the meaning of a multimorphemic combination can be synchronically related to the meaning of its constituents.
Consider, for example, the set of all adjective forms of a given English idiolect system whose sound sequences start with /bl/.
Common morphotactic model Finite-state machine and Graph are the two models which are often used as a set of rules for morphotactics.
Morphological Morphological rules are exceptions to the orthographic rules used when breaking a word into its stem and modifiers.
An often cited example in English is certain common nicknames that begin with N, where the given name does not begin with N (e.g.
Example abstraction Let v be a classical valuation defined on every atomic sentence of the language L and let At(x) be the number of distinct atomic sentences in a formula x.
She sold the book YESTERDAY), saying that YESTERDAY receives focus because it could be substituted with alternative time periods (TODAY or LAST WEEK) and still serve to answer the question the first speaker asked.
Resolutions in utility theory In the economics field of utility theory, the sorites paradox arises when a person's preferences patterns are investigated.
Some theories in cognitive linguistics rely on the idea that bracketing represents to some degree of accuracy how listeners parse complex utterances (e.g.
Here, bracketing gives the linguist a convenient technique for representing the different ways to parse the word, and for forming hypotheses about why the word is parsed the way it is by speakers of the language.
Since these are technically letters, they have their own Unicode code points in the Latin Extended-B range: U+01C0 ǀ LATIN LETTER DENTAL CLICK and U+01C1 ǁ LATIN LETTER LATERAL CLICK.
Formal systems A formal system (also called a logical calculus, or a logical system) consists of a formal language together with a deductive apparatus (also called a deductive system).
In English, bahuvrihis can be identified and the last constituent is usually a noun, while the whole compound is a noun or an adjective.
From an analysis of these and other data the first 4 epistles (Romans, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, and Galatians) form a consistent group, and all the other epistles lie more than 2 standard deviations from the mean of this group (using χ 2 {\displaystyle \chi ^{2}} statistics).
Putnam explains his rejection of descriptivist and traditionalist approaches to natural kinds with semantic reasoning, and insists that natural kinds can not be thought of via descriptive processes or creating endless lists of properties.
Necessarily true propositions (often simply called necessary propositions) are those that are true in all possible worlds (for example: "2 + 2 = 4"; "all bachelors are unmarried").
This distinction is motivated by the fact that language uses certain categories of notions to structure and organize meaning, while other categories are excluded from this function.
Software cdec, MT decoding package that supports SynCFGs Joshua, a machine translation decoding system written in Java == References ==
Rules As marketed in the 1960s WFF 'N PROOF was a series of 20 games of increasing complexity, varying with the logical rules and methods available.
See also Antanaclasis Figura etymologica Hendiadys Legal doublet Merism Pleonasm (the use of more words than necessary to express an idea) Polyptoton (a stylistic scheme in which words derived from the same root are repeated) == References ==
Possession Adjectives Pronouns Unlike other nominals, personal pronouns in Evenki have significantly irregular inflection: There are three types of reflexive pronouns in Evenki.
In logic programming, they make it possible for programs limited to one type of logic to be applied to many additional cases.
Stalnaker argues that even if the English word "actual" is an indexical, that doesn't mean that other worlds exist.
It is sometimes also called antilambda because the sign resembles a Greek capital letter lambda (Λ) turned upon its side.
Similarly, m ω + 1 {\displaystyle m^{\omega +1}} and m ω − 1 {\displaystyle m^{\omega -1}} are defined as lim n → ∞ m n !
A major authority on the valency of the English verbs is Allerton (1982), who made the important distinction between semantic and syntactic valency.
It operates upwards when the antecedent appears in a clause that is subordinate to the clause containing the ellipsis, and downwards when the ellipsis appears in a clause subordinate to the clause containing the antecedent.
("Is the dog eating some fish?") Further details on verb inflection can be found in the articles on the languages listed above (or their grammars).
Material implication is used in all the basic systems of classical logic as well as some nonclassical logics.
A discourse relation (also coherence relation or rhetorical relation) is a description of how two segments of discourse are logically and/or structurally connected to one another.
The first character wēi (危) does indeed mean "dangerous" or "precarious", but the second character jī (机; 機) is highly polysemous.
Overview In English conditional sentences, the antecedent (protasis) is a dependent clause, most commonly introduced by the complementizer if.
You cannot claim we lack free will (for example), because we had to learn the use of the expression "free will" from examples, and they are the paradigms.
See also Foregrounding Prosody (linguistics) Repetition (rhetorical device) References Further reading Faulty Parallelism, Nipissing University
Little tumuli of oyster shells in the oyster season, and of lobster shells in the lobster season, and of broken crockery and faded cabbage leaves in all seasons, encroached upon its high places." (Charles Dickens, Dombey and Son, 1848) "Papa O.
Critics point out that these assumptions underlying evolutionary psychologists' hypotheses are controversial and have been contested by some psychologists, philosophers, and neuroscientists.
More generally, u is said to yield, or derive to, v, denoted as u ⇒ ∗ v {\displaystyle u\Rightarrow ^{*}v} , if v can be obtained from u by repeated application of production rules, that is, if u = u 0 ⇒ .
These techniques rely on extensive lists of semantic domains that are relevant to vernacular languages.
"Do" as an expletive At the start of the modern English era, the use of the word "do" as an expletive came into fashion with no fixed principle guiding it.
The leaves of a derivation tree for a formal grammar G are the terminal symbols of that grammar, and the internal nodes the nonterminal or variable symbols.
The clauses are each independent complete sentence structures, so presumably each pronoun would co-index to its referent in its constituent to comply with binding theories.
In linguistic typology, time–manner–place is a sentence structure that defines the order of adpositional phrases and adverbs in a sentence: "yesterday", "by car", "to the store".
This may include: an existing artwork a reproduction (i.e., a photo) a directly observed object (e.g., a person) the artist's memory Another example of reference is samples of various musical works being incorporated into a new one.
Interfaces in Linguistics, New Research Perspectives, Oxford Studies in Theoretical Linguistics 31 Harley, Heidi.
See also Downward entailing Formal semantics (linguistics) Implicature Loaded question Logical consequence Presupposition == References ==
Meanings associated with a semantically overloaded word have different qualities: those the word itself refers directly to, and other meanings inferred from its use in context.
The term "indeterminate pronoun" originates in Kuroda's (1965) thesis and is typically used in reference to wh-indeterminates, which are pronouns which function as an interrogative pronoun in questions, yet come to have additional meanings with other grammatical operators.
Ancient Greek, Sanskrit, Tocharian, Old Irish), there is a separate set of conjugational classes for each of the tense/aspect categories, with no general relationship obtaining between the class of a given verb in one category relative to another.
In 1931, the German linguist Jost Trier introduced a new method in his book Der deutsche Wortschatz im Sinnbezirk des Verstandes, which is known as the lexical field theory.
Questions in shi-support Additionally, questions in shi-support and in English do-support do not function identically.
HTML 4 (1999) redefined the purpose of the character as marking a hyphenation opportunity, which only becomes visible as a hyphen at the end of a line after formatting.
For example, the phrase "I need your assista­nce discreetly" has a soft hyphen in the word assistance which may mean a mail system would not detect the phrase in the email body.
Ideal presuppositions of communication When individuals pursue actions oriented towards reaching an understanding, the speech acts they exchange take on the weight of a mutually recognized validity.
Inflectional morphology may be a more reliable means for defining the grammatical relations than the configuration, but its utility can be very limited in many cases.
A common example that is used by linguistic formalists to indicate the validity of autonomy in syntax is, "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously", which demonstrates that, in order for a sentence to be syntactically correct, it does not need to be coherent or meaningful in any way.
Variants of Greibach normal form It is even possible to convert a grammar into Greibach normal form in a way such that in every production, at most two nonterminal symbols occur on the right-hand side; this is referred to as quadratic Greibach normal form.
Pedagogically or expositorily, that approach has value especially when speakers know that they need to lead the listener's attention from one topic to another in a deftly-efficient manner.
In contrast, Shilluk, a language in South Sudan, places a pertensive affix on the head (e.g., dúup = "rodent", dû́uup = "rodent belonging to").
Generally, a reference is a value that enables a program to directly access the particular data item.
Dummet summarizes the distinction by terming pure semantics as "the merely algebraic notion of logical consequence" and applied semantics as "the semantic notion of logical consequence properly so called".
English pronouns also have the number feature, which can have a value of either "singular" or "plural".
the other words and phrases inside the adjective phrase—are typically adverb or prepositional phrases, but they can also be clauses (e.g.
Thus in the example above, to express in Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, one would write where N is the set of all natural numbers.
In mathematics, a sesquipower or Zimin word is a string over an alphabet with identical prefix and suffix.
Suszko's thesis In order to justify his claim that true and false are the only logical values, Roman Suszko (1977) observes that every structural Tarskian many-valued propositional logic can be provided with a bivalent semantics.
The explanation is that the Germanic and Greek nominative forms developed from the o-grade, the Latin word and the Germanic genitive from the zero-grade (in which syllabic n̥ developed into en much in the same way as it became un in Germanic).
Jackendoff (1990, 1996:120–3), in the process of incorporating aspects of force dynamics into his theory of conceptual semantics, has proposed a reconfiguration of some of its basic notions.
Mahaney's argument does not actually require the sparse language to be in NP (because the existence of an NP-hard sparse set implies the existence of an NP-complete sparse set), so there is a sparse NP-hard set if and only if P = NP.
In the basic first conditional pattern, the condition is expressed using the present tense (having future meaning in this context).
Starting with Gottlob Frege's 1879 Begriffsschrift, Charles Sanders Peirce's 1885 work, and Bertrand Russell's 1903 Principles of Mathematics, quantifiers were introduced into mathematical logic formalism.
Some Spanish-language writers, among them Nobel laureate Pablo Neruda (1904–1973), refuse to use the upside-down question mark.
In the twin Earth thought experiment, for example, inhabitants might use "water" to mean their equivalent of water, even if its chemical composition is not H2O but XYZ.
The term Lübke English (or, in German, Lübke-Englisch) refers to nonsensical English created by literal word-by-word translation of German phrases, disregarding differences between the languages in syntax and meaning.
The San Francisco Chronicle columnist Herb Caen reported irregularly on reader-submitted examples, including a substitute teacher Mr.
When building up chords on the basis of a musical scale there are three different kinds of chords resulting, namely "major"(e.g.
Strengthening the Role of ICT in Development, Fountain Publishers, Kampala, Uganda, 50–58.http://aflat.org/files/muchemi.pdf
It is widely accepted that the first questions are asked by humans during their early infancy, at the pre-syntactic, one word stage of language development, with the use of question intonation.
"white-white (snow)")—ad hoc formation, for adjectives inflected reduplication: "давным-давно" ([dɐˈvnɨm dɐˈvno]; "very long time ago", lit.
Because classifier constructions are highly iconic, representational analyses argue that this form-meaning connection should be the basis for linguistic analysis.
Examples The origins of the word hamburger were in a form of ground meat dish originating from Hamburg, Germany.
If the speaker does not shorten an already existing word for the concept, but coins a new one, s/he can select from several types of processes.
In chemistry, the double dagger is used in chemical kinetics to indicate a short-lived transition state species.
As non-volatile storage devices begin to exceed 1 GB in capacity (where the ambiguity begins to routinely impact the second significant digit), GB and TB almost always mean 109 and 1012 bytes.
Pronominal enclitics may also mark possession and other less common argument structures like causal and reciprocal arguments (see Pintupi).
Given a grammar in GNF and a derivable string in the grammar with length n, any top-down parser will halt at depth n.
However this does not necessarily imply that the class of CSGs is necessary to capture "context sensitivity" in the colloquial sense of these terms in natural languages.
Privative adjectives are non-subsective, but behave differently from ordinary non-subsectives in important respects, at least in English.
Contemporary linguists argue that classification based on a mixture of morphosyntactic function and semantic meaning is insufficient for systematic analysis of grammar.
Jerry Fodor coined the term "inferential role semantics" in order to criticise it as a holistic (i.e.
Cicero made frequent use of the invective form against political foes such as Clodius, Catilina (in the Catalinarian speeches) or Mark Antony (Philippics).
The distinction is important in disciplines such as logic, linguistics, metalogic, typography, and computer programming.
Some of the theories that fall within this paradigm are construction grammar, cognitive grammar, and word grammar.
In other words, the superlative form and the bare adjective cannot be built off the same root to the exclusion of the comparative (a so-called *ABA pattern), because the comparative is necessarily contained within the superlative form.
MPI-I-92-240.{{cite tech report}}: CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) Bachmair, Leo, Ganzinger, Harald, Waldmann, Uwe (1993).
A capitonym is a word that changes its meaning (and sometimes pronunciation) when it is capitalized; the capitalization usually applies due to one form being a proper noun or eponym.
Nerode, Anil (1958), "Linear Automaton Transformations", Proceedings of the American Mathematical Society, 9 (4): 541–544, doi:10.1090/S0002-9939-1958-0135681-9, JSTOR 2033204.
In linguistics and grammar, a quantifier is a type of determiner, such as all, some, many, few, a lot, and no, (but not specific numerals) that indicates quantity.
The topic is what is being talked about and the subject is the noun which the verb in the predicate agrees with.
This number is bounded by c ( n ) = Θ ( α n ) {\displaystyle c(n)=\Theta (\alpha ^{n})} , where 1.3017597 < α < 1.3017619 {\textstyle 1.3017597<\alpha <1.3017619} .
In an 1888 issue of the Kentish Note Book magazine, a list appeared with "several carriers by the name of Carter; a hosier named Hosegood; an auctioneer named Sales; and a draper named Cuff".
The theorem is named for John Myhill and Anil Nerode, who proved it at the University of Chicago in 1957 (Nerode & Sauer 1957, p.
For example, in Japanese, wasabi わさび is a plant (Wasabia japonica) used as a spicy Japanese condiment.
Postsyntactic Morphology posits that this operation takes place after the syntax itself has been expressed.
As the years passed, Spaniards asserted the superiority of the Spanish language; as a result, Spanish gained prestige, taking over as a language of wider communication and the dominant language of Peru.
It shares many similarities with the Devanagari script and the Eastern Nagari script (Bengali-Assamese script).
The word macaronic comes from the Neo-Latin macaronicus, which is from the Italian maccarone, or "dumpling", regarded as coarse peasant fare.
Unlike some auxlangs like Esperanto, the orthography of Sambahsa is complex yet regular and consists only of the 26 letters of the basic Latin alphabet.
After six weeks, this was self-published in August 1974 as Empire of the Petal Throne and play commenced forthwith, including such occasional members as Dave Arneson – who singled out Barker and Tékumel as being his favorite Dungeon Master and roleplaying game, respectively – from early days.
One of the problems with this technique is that if there is a problem with the resulting text it is impossible to know whether the error occurred in the forward translation, in the back translation, or in both.
(translation) My language project called Romanid was published already in May of last year as a scientific study in Hungarian...
It was used in the episode "Mentalo Case" from the TV series The King of Queens, between character Spence Olchin (Patton Oswalt) and a salesman at a toy convention.
The Google interface was translated into Kitara in February 2010 by the Faculty of Computing and IT, Makerere University.
Many other speakers prefer oral transmission of knowledge, Devanagari, or Latin, but Warang Chiti holds prestige among many Ho speakers.
It was later used in the eleventh millenium by the Bene Gesserit and used by the Fremen for rites and incantations.
The consonant system is closest to that of Standard Igbo, but with a hard distinction between nasal consonants and plosives that that language lacks, and even adds prenasalized stops.
In Italian, the alfabeto farfallino uses a similar encoding; in Spanish, a similar language variation is called Jeringonza.
See also Totoiana, an inverted speech form spoken in Romania Romanian dialects, even if Gumuțeasca does not represent a dialect Notes References External links Video about Gumuțeasca on YouTube
Morganwg suggested that he had collected some of Siôn and Bradford's manuscripts, while the majority, including all of Lewys Morgannwg's sources, were lost.
"Although he did not think much of the Communists, Orwell was still ready to treat them as friends and allies.
The last part of the book contains a list of vocabulary with roughly 1,500 words, followed by a list of useful phrases.
If after using RTT, the resulting text is inaccurate, the source text can then be edited until a satisfactory result is achieved.
Other scholars, such as Salikoko Mufwene, argue that pidgins and creoles arise independently under different circumstances, and that a pidgin need not always precede a creole nor a creole evolve from a pidgin.
For example: i = "I" (nominative), ma = "me" (accusative), mo = "to me" (dative), tu, ta, to = "you", etc.
In Quenya, heavy syllables are syllables that contain either a long vowel, a diphthong, or a final consonant (thus an intervocalic consonant cluster: ll, ld, mm, ss, ny, ry, etc.).
2nd principle The more mental energy required to master the words, the less mental energy is left for the ideas contained.
This tour coincided with the release of Come Quietly, a joint project between Gerrard and Schulze that was released exclusively during the tour.
Properties The Elbasan alphabet exhibited a nearly one-to-one correspondence between sounds and letters, with only three exceptions, of which two were restricted to Greek loanwords.
The report discusses phonology and morphological processes in some detail, and starts to discuss nouns, but breaks off before saying much about verbs, other parts of speech or the grammar as a whole.
It was used mainly by market sellers, such as butchers and greengrocers, for private conversations behind their customers' backs and to pass off lower-quality goods to less-observant customers.
Darkover Her 1958 novel The Planet Savers introduced the planet of Darkover, which became the setting of a popular series by Bradley and other authors.
Dalgarno was also interested in constructing what he called a 'philosophical language', now more usually referred to as universal language.
A philosophical language is any constructed language that is constructed from first principles, sometimes following a classification.
Examples: Änglisch 'English' → Inglisch-ee Öpfu 'apple' → Ipfu-hee External links Matteänglisch-Club Bärn (Bern Mattenenglisch Club – the site is in German and Bernese German) Mattenenglisch, an explanation with examples (in German).
To a far lesser, though still significant extent, Sorang Sompeng is learned, taught, read, and written for secular educational and literary purposes in Sora communities, primarily in the Indian states of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.
According to Andreas Künzli, author of the book Universalaj lingvoj en Svislando, this was the pseudonym of Hans Homolka, an Austrian Occidentalist.
Italian has riocontra featuring inversion of syllables, spoken in Milan and trancorio, spoken in the Mompiano neighborhood of Brescia.
English frequently makes use of diphthongs, which is an issue for back slang since diphthongs cannot be reversed.
In the introduction and first part, Schor introduces her first experiences with Esperanto, and gives a synopsis of its history.
See also Argot Pig Latin Tutnese or Double Dutch, similar rules Ubbi dubbi Javanais Gibberish == References ==
Interlingua was developed to combine a simple, mostly regular grammar with a vocabulary common to a wide range of western European languages, making it easy to learn for those whose native languages were sources of Interlingua's vocabulary and grammar.
There are three exceptions: ㄱ is named giyeok (기역), ㄷ is named digeut (디귿), and ㅅ is named siot (시옷).
Created in 1922, it was first published in the magazine Kosmoglott (later Cosmoglotta), where it built a following.
He stated that: The Black Speech was not intentionally modelled on any style, but was meant to be self consistent, very different from Elvish, yet organized and expressive, as would be expected of a device of Sauron before his complete corruption.
A Welsh Bardic and Druidic essay, written by his son Taliesin Williams and published as a pamphlet in 1840, defended the authenticity of the alphabet and won the Abergavenny Eisteddfod in 1838.
First Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1879-1880.
It was assumed that education inevitably took people away from an innate state of goodness they possessed, and therefore there was an attempt to see what language a human child brought up in utter silence would speak.
Many features of the site have been noted by the press, including its culture tests, humorous excerpts from phrase books, its collection of numbers in over 5000 languages, and The Language Construction Kit.
Grey areas indicate non-assigned code points: References External links Noto Sans Warang Chiti, a font made by Google An entry at Omniglot
Some Enochian words resemble words and proper names in the Bible, but most have no apparent etymology.
Elision Elision takes place when two of the same vowels would be adjacent, or with certain grammatical particles.
The language has a "Law of Detachment" whereby suffixes can be moved to the beginnings of words for emphasis and even attach onto other words such as pronouns.
Archived from the original (PDF) on 2015-09-24.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Silvano La Lacerto Auclair (2011).
2007–2014 As well as maintaining mezangelle works via the livejournal blog, this creative period again shifts Mez's artistic emphasis to the use of augmented reality, mixed reality, virtual reality and mobile platforms.
Plewds (💦): flying sweat droplets that appear around a character's head when working hard, stressed, etc.
Uropi substantives are divided into three groups: those ending in a consonant, those ending in -a and those ending in another vowel.
The Pali alphabet, including the Ariyaka script, consists of 41 letters: 6 vowels 2 diphthongs 32 consonants 1 accessory nasal sound (niggahīta) Consonants are further classified into 25 mutes, 6 semivowels, 1 sibilant, and 1 aspirant, with vowels divided into long and short forms.
False friends False friends are terms from one language which are identical or very similar in form to a word in another, but differ in their meaning.
Dutch (19th and 20th century) — In 1883 (De Vries and Te Winkel), 1934 (Marchant), 1947 (The Green Booklet), 1996 (Actie) and 2006.
The new digital format features a precise pronunciation guide, rules for proper use of affixes and suffixes, and a search menu.
Monads Leibniz's best known contribution to metaphysics is his theory of monads, as exposited in Monadologie.
His paintings reflect his religious beliefs, featuring objects such as stairs, roads and the representation of God.
In 1998 Espedair Street was dramatised as a serial for Radio 4, presented by Paul Gambaccini in the style of a Radio 1 documentary.
Early life and education Richard Adams was born on 10 May 1920 in Newbury, Berkshire, the son of Lillian Rosa (née Button) and Evelyn George Beadon Adams, a doctor.
The autocrat should use his power to eliminate bad customs, modernize the country and give the nobles and clergy privileges on the model to the Western Ständestaat.
The CÚG maintained a multi-lingual website providing access to the recent recommendations of the committee.
The name Ill Bethisad itself is Brithenig for the universe, a calque from Welsh bydysawd or Latin baptizatum.
Although Zamenhof initially called his reform a systematic attempt to re-create the language in the light of more than six years of practical experience, scarcely any of the Esperanto community of the time accepted it as a whole.
leche → chele (milk, used primarily to refer to semen) libro → broli (book) e.g., (usually plural) "¡Che, agarrá los brolis más seguido!" (Dude, get the books and learn something!) amigo → gomía (friend) e.g., "¡Eh!, ¡¿qué hacés gomía?!" (Hey!
Characters There were an original 42 syllabic characters that were ordered according to sound and shape, while 150 more characters were later added without the same consistency to the character set.
See also Cave Beck Constructed language Emoji Engineered language Ideogram Jacob Linzbach Joseph de Maimieux Philosophical language == References ==
It attracted attention in 1961 when Alfandari published his books Cours Pratique de Neo and The Rapid Method of Neo.
Personal life Ryan was married to Dublin-born producer Nicky Ryan until his death in September 2025.
203 published an article entitled "The Problem of de Wahl's Rule" (Li problema del regul de Wahl), presenting a modification of de Wahl's rule by an author using the pseudonym Interlinguisticus .
The digits 0-9 are used in modern writing, but the signs for larger numbers are falling into disuse.
Latin and Greek (or Koine Greek) were the intermediary language of all areas of the Mediterranean; Akkadian, and then Aramaic, remained the common languages of a large part of Western Asia through several earlier empires.
See also Gumuțeasca, an argot spoken in Romania Romanian dialects, even if Totoiana does not represent a dialect == References ==
The BCP 47 subtag x can be used to create a suitable private use tag for any constructed language that has not been assigned an official language tag (e.g., art-x-solresol could be used for Solresol).
Totoiana is still spoken in the village, and its inhabitants recall that Totoiana was once more widely spoken than standard Romanian in Totoi, even if it is now only used for fun "with a beer".
The album, that combines the choir's folkloric harmonies and a multitude of instruments, was arranged and produced by Petar Dundakov.
Among other features, front vowel sounds like /i/ (like the i in machine) are much rarer in Black Speech than in Elvish, while back vowel sounds like /u/ (like the u in brute) are much more common.
During one such interaction, he thought it would be fun to create a new language that could be easily grasped.
This disgusting murderer is temporarily on our side, and so the purges, etc., are suddenly forgotten.
His assessment was based on a large sample of glossolalia recorded in public and private Christian meetings in Italy, the Netherlands, Jamaica, Canada, and the United States over the course of five years.
In February of 2024, Lang released the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (Toki Pona edition), the first in a planned series of illustrated storybooks written in Sitelen Pona (referred to collectively as lipu su).
In popular culture A variant of Ubbi Dubbi was popularized as the signature speech pattern of the cartoon character Mushmouth from the animated series Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids (1972), voiced by Bill Cosby.
Faculty members were initially skeptical about teaching such a young student, but most were eventually impressed by his mathematical abilities and serious approach to learning.
External links Official website Elgin's Láadan introduction Lesson One of Láadan Made Easier A Láadan Sampler Elgin’s critique of others’ analysis of Láadan: Myths About Láadan Just One More Láadan Myth Láadan lessons (moderately paced lessons in Láadan by A.M.J.
In an interview, Coppola said that he made the film as a meditation on time and on consciousness, which he considers a "changing tapestry of illusion", but he stated that the film may also be appreciated as a beautiful love story, or as a mystery.
Louis Couturat the monumental Histoire de la Langue Universelle (1903) and its supplement Les Nouvelles Langues Internationales (1907).
Fractions are formed with the suffix -(d)lop: kut 'four', kutlop 'quarter', sha 'five', shadlop 'fifth (part)'.
Non è facile, anche perché va detto il più veloce possibile Which means, in English: This is an example of phrase in Farfallino Alphabet.
The syllabary did not distinguish all the syllables of the Vai language until the 1960s when the University of Liberia added distinctions by modifying certain glyphs with dots or extra strokes to cover all CV syllables in use.
Pronouns Verbs There are eight irregular verbs: *do, is, have, may, can, will, shall* and *worth* (to become), which have been excepted on account of brevity and frequency.
Peterson created the High Valyrian language, as well as the derivative languages Astapori and Meereenese Valyrian, based on fragments from the novels.
LoCoS (short for Lovers Communication System) is a pictorial language developed by Yukio Ota of Japan in 1964.
For example, the verb in a sentence is invariable regardless of the number and person of the subject.
The Academia was a descendant of the Kadem bevünetik volapüka (International Academy of Volapük) created at a Volapük congress in Munich in August 1887.
The task was then taken up by Mulla Kaus's son Mulla Firuz, whose translation was published along with the original in 1818.
"African Script and Scripture: The History of the Kikakui (Mende) Writing System for Bible Translations".
See also An Essay Towards a Real Character, and a Philosophical Language Philosophical language References == Sources ==
Language is more than everyday communication, it holds history, customs and information about its people and their way of life.
On 18 March 2008, during 5th Kurultai, the World Assembly of Turkic Peoples decided to found International Institute of the Language Ortaturk (Anatürk).
Phonology Phonemic inventory Toki Pona has nine consonants (/p, t, k, s, m, n, l, j, w/) and five vowels (/a, e, i, o, u/).
External links Official website Collection of links to Interlingua resources English-Interlingua dictionary by Bryne Word Building, in A Grammar of Interlingua by Alexander Gode and Hugh E.
Madison registered "Talossa" as a service mark in 2005 and created Talossa, Inc., a Wisconsin not-for-profit corporation.
Let us honor the rare ones, our rebellious spirits who, like this artist, before denying others, find affirmation in themselves; that instead of destroying, seek to build.
Martin, the author of the A Song of Ice and Fire novel series, who then introduced him to Ty Franck, co-author of The Expanse novel series.
However, there are also languages intended for speakers of a particular language family (zonal constructed languages), including Pan-Romance, Pan-Germanic and Pan-Slavic naturalistic planned languages.
Nefamese Nefamese is a pidgin that was once the main lingua franca of the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh, although it has been increasingly replaced by Hindi.
Macaronic language is any expression using a mixture of languages, particularly bilingual puns or situations in which the languages are otherwise used in the same context (rather than simply discrete segments of a text being in different languages).
Language planners in Peru have proposed several varieties to serve as the supradialectal spoken norm.
Words are selected from among multiple terms borrowed from these languages, in accordance with seven criteria: commonality, short word-length, diversity, distinctiveness, simplicity, cultural priority, compounding.
This is mostly used for foreign words to represent a non-syllabic consonant without a following vowel, often as a syllable coda, which does not occur in siNtu languages.
These include logograms, some used phonetically, syllabograms (for CV and CVC syllables), as well as independent consonants and vowels.
Koch orders Reza to neatly copy into a ledger a list of newly arrived prisoners, omitting crossed out names as those died en route.
He won awards for this from the American Medical Writers Association and the International Federation of Translators.
Podaná (Greek: ποδανά) is a Greek argot based on rearranging syllables, similar to Verlan and Vesre.
In 1929 Johannes Dietterle cited this refusal as justification for omitting details of the reform project from his collection of Zamenhof's complete works, Originala Verkaro.
Starckdeutsch (literally, strong German, albeit with ck for k, as dictated by the conventions of the variant) is an imagined language created by Matthias Koeppel (1937–2026), a German painter and poet and self-proclaimed Sprachkünstler (artist of language).
Alphabet Below is the list of all letters and sounds used in ROILA: Of the 26 letters of the English alphabet, c, d, g, h, q, r, v, x, y, and z are not used.
Pae, Winskel, and Kim argue this property was initially stronger but weakened over time due to changes in the language and script.
Based on this research, the team set out to create a genetic algorithm that would generate an artificial vocabulary in a way that would be easy for a human to pronounce.
The author presents a world-wide collection of case studies in visible language signage systems, including LoCoS.
Other remarkable assertions include that this language could be used translate any idiom in any other language, without any alteration of the literal sense, but still fully representing the intention.
In 1925 Peano switched Chairs unofficially from Infinitesimal Calculus to Complementary Mathematics, a field which better suited his current style of mathematics.
Another link may have been Cherokee who emigrated to Liberia after the invention of the Cherokee syllabary (which in its early years spread rapidly among the Cherokee) but before the invention of the Vai syllabary.
Students learn to write in Avoiuli at Turaga's traditional school at Lavatmanggemu in north-eastern Pentecost, and at affiliated 'custom schools', paying substantial school fees for the privilege.
Due to the geographical spread of its editors (see the box on the right), the Esperanto Wikipedia has a varied list of countries of origin of its editors.
It was created by Donald Boozer, then a Subject Department Librarian in Literature, and currently Coordinator of Ohio's statewide online reference service (KnowItNow24x7), as well as librarian and secretary of the Language Creation Society.
Avoiuli (from Raga avoi 'talk about' and uli 'draw' or 'paint') is a writing system used by the Turaga indigenous movement on Pentecost Island in Vanuatu.
The perfect uses the auxiliary avo: "to have" and the past participle ending in -en: i av jeden: I have eaten, ce av venen: "she has come".
The Gjirokastër alphabet, also known as Veso Bey alphabet (Albanian: Alfabeti i Veso Beut), is one of the original Albanian language alphabets of the 19th century.
It has also been used as a name for a constructed language invented by John Lyons as a teaching tool in linguistics.
Kiliki or Kilikili is a fictional language originally created by Madhan Karky for the 2015 Indian epic action film Baahubali: The Beginning.
Language The grammar of the language described in the text is somewhat reminiscent of the extensive and intricate taxonomic structures of other philosophical languages, and of the baroque grammar of later projects such as Volapük.
The script used throughout the Ithkuil grammar bears a superficial resemblance to Hebrew square script and the various Klingon fonts.
Verbs Most words can act as verbs, depending on their places in the sentence (usually in the medial position).
It was used in the first episode of the first season, titled "Dulcinea", that had premiered in 2015.
Beyond the 10s digit, the further digits are written on top of the base place value indicator, which increases in vertical lines from 2 at the 100s place (indicating 2*10 + the digit above) to the millionths digit that is encoded (which has 6).
Sexton had previous experience with programming for video games, so his role became that of a programmer on the project, while Phillips would be responsible for the majority of the art assets and the story.
Vowels are a e i o ou u; donu 'will give' and donou 'gift' imply a distinction between ou and u, likely /u/ and /y/ respectively (as in French).
can reinforce a prejudice, delay recognition of a muddle, betray us emotionally at a point of new growth..." Modern culture In 2011, The Orwell Society was formed to promote understanding of the life and work of Orwell.
Unicode The Adlam alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in June 2016 with the release of version 9.0.
They state that the Holy Spirit revealed the words of the language to Ukpong, while Udofia wrote them down.
She gained a PhD in linguistics, and was the first UCSD student ever to write two dissertations (on English and Navajo).
Adjectives are placed after the nouns they modify, for example in setara mali, which means little star.
In this period he also served as speechwriter for Leonard Orban, Manuel Barroso, Antonio Tajani, Androulla Vassiliou.
Around this time, Gerrard became the lead vocalist of Microfilm, which released "Window", and one single, "Centrefold", in 1980, via Unforgettable Music label.
Notes References Sources Further reading External links The ceremonial language Damin at the Wayback Machine (archived July 16, 2012)
The language is closely related to Mundari (mutually intelligible with it but with many dialectal differences), Ho, and Santali.
There were no ceremonies for women, although women did play an important role in these ceremonies, especially in the luruku ceremony.
Any such efforts came to an end with the beginning of World War I and the German invasion of Belgium, voiding the treaty which established joint sovereignty over the territory.
Concerning Interlingua de IALA (IA) Today the name Interlingua often refers to a different language presented in 1951 by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA).
She married Northern Irish author Peter Morwood in 1987; they later moved to the United Kingdom and then to Ireland, where they resided in Grangecon, County Wicklow.
The original digit designs differed in form; however, when the first digital fonts were developed in 2013, these shapes were modified due to technical limitations in accurately rendering the original designs.
The letters a, e, and o may vary in pronunciation with possible allophones being [ɑ], [ɛ] or [eɪ], and [ɔ] or [oʊ]/[əʊ] respectively.
In 1902 the Academy proposed a heavily revised version which was known as Neutral and later Idiom Neutral.
Johannes Hendrik "Jan" van Steenbergen (Dutch pronunciation: [joːˈɦɑnəs ˈɦɛndrɪk ˈjɑɱ vɑn ˈsteːmbɛrɣə(n)]; born June 3, 1970) is a Dutch translator and interpreter.
Instances of attested prior usage, it can be seen, were incidental or not intended for the same purpose.
In 2005 Venedic underwent a major revision due to a better understanding of Latin and Slavic sound and grammar changes.
With some astonishment, he one day realised that he had been reading the symbols off not in Chinese, but in his own language, German.
Vowels can be either long or short, but the functional load of vowel length appears to be light, however, as very few minimal pairs exist when tone is taken into account.
The Robot Interaction Language (ROILA) is the first spoken language created specifically for talking to robots.
Some symbols have become nearly universal through their consistent use in computers and on the Internet.
In 1936 the IALA began development of a new international auxiliary language and in 1939 Gode was hired to assist in this work.
The second edition was included on the Deluxe Collector's Edition of Amarantine boxed set in early 2006.
Women need to treasure and support science fiction." In addition, she published works of shorter fiction.
One early US show to regularly feature rhyming slang was the Saturday morning children's show The Bugaloos (1970–72), with the character of Harmony (Wayne Laryea) often incorporating it in his dialogue.
Adam Phillips, also known by his online alias Chluaid (), is an Australian filmmaker, animator, and former freelancer.
In 2012, 146 newborn girls in the United States were named "Khaleesi", the Dothraki term for the wife of a khal or ruler, and the title adopted in the series by Daenerys Targaryen.
Star Trek Caves wrote the Star Trek: The Next Generation episode "Hollow Pursuits", in which Reginald Barclay was introduced.
The Association of Inventors-Inventists The AO language formed part of Wolf Gordin's overall "Philosophy of Invention" or "Inventist Philosophy".
The Ariyaka script (Thai: อักษรอริยกะ) is an obsolete alphabet, invented by King Mongkut as an alternative to transcribing Pali, the liturgical language of Theravada Buddhism.
Marani also regularly writes for the cultural page of the Italian daily Il Sole 24 Ore and is a blogger on eunews.it.
Spider-Man Duane wrote a trilogy of Spider-Man novels, The Venom Factor, for Byron-Preiss Multimedia from 1994 to 1996.
The novel contains a portrait of an Arab and Muslim society under occupation by a Christian western power (Egypt by Catholic France).
A former president going on a hunger strike to support the legal battle of a foreigner in his country was a first in world history.
Pidgins have historically been considered a form of patois, unsophisticated, simplified versions of their lexifiers, and as such usually have low prestige with respect to other languages.
Adalbert Baumann (10 February 1870 – 6 December 1943), was a German gymnasium teacher, politician, and historian.
Verbs and pronouns Verbs inflect only for tense and aspect: Indicative present in -a, future -u, past (imparfait) -e (-é), present perfect (parfait) -i, past perfect -o.
Neo His proposal for Neo, an international auxiliary language, was developed in the 1930s and first presented in 1961.
The 'consonant' modifier is used to derive additional consonants, mostly from Arabic, similar to e.g.
The first part, The Reception of Tolkien's Invented Languages, discusses the history of the study of Tolkien's languages or "Tolkenian Linguistics".
It was created by the Hungarian language teacher Zoltán Magyar, who published a first version in May 1956 and a second in December 1957.
Giuseppe Peano continued teaching at Turin University until the day before he died when he suffered a fatal heart attack.
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
Words are differentiated by three main characteristics: the initial syllable, word length, and whether it has a pair of repeated syllables.
Stress falls on the initial syllable of a word, and it is marked by an increase in loudness, length, or pitch.
Romanian (19th century) – replaced Cyrillic script with the Latin alphabet, deprecated thousands of Slavic words in favour of Romance words.
One of the important differences between APiCS and World Atlas of Language Structures, as well as other earlier surveys of languages, is that APiCS allows for languages to be coded for more than one strategy.
Many of her stories used anthropologists or cultural observers as protagonists, and Taoist ideas about balance and equilibrium have been identified in several writings.
In 1984, he published a phrasebook with a short grammar, in which he presents a slightly more simplified version of the language.
His languages included large spelling reforms, and simplifications of German grammar, designed to make German easier for foreigners to learn.
As stated above, one of the major differences between WALS and APiCS is that APiCS allows for multiple values for one feature whereas WALS does not.
Marani, Diego, "Europanto: From productive process to language, or how to cause international English to implode", Europanto, BE.
Texts in Transpiranto consist of short phrases taken straight from English, German, French, Spanish, Italian and Latin, alternating with more strictly Esperanto-like fragments, and with Swedish slang.
A pasigraphy (from Greek πᾶσι pasi "to all" and γράφω grapho "to write") is a writing system where each written symbol represents a concept (rather than or not just a word or sound or series of sounds in a spoken language).
Orwell was a proponent of a federal socialist Europe, a position outlined in his 1947 essay "Toward European Unity", which first appeared in Partisan Review.
Its internet and media exposure since the late 1990s contributed to the appearance of other subsequent internet micronations.
It promotes the development of cultural sensitivity and allows for empathic understanding across different cultures.
Vowels See also List of constructed scripts Naoriya Pakhanglakpa Assembly constituency Naoriya Pakhanglakpa Mayek (disambiguation) Notes References == External links ==
Talossa claims several places on Earth as its territory, especially a portion of Milwaukee, calling it the "Greater Talossan Area"; no such claim, however, is recognized by the United Nations or by any sovereign nation.
That year, he received a Fulbright Scholarship to study the languages of India, and on his first trip to India, converted to Islam.
Well-known places often have sobriquets, such as New York City, often called the "Big Apple", or Rome, the "Eternal City", or Vienna, the "Golden Apple" or Paris the "City of Light".
"Summer" has received nominations for British Single and British Artist Video of the Year at the 2015 Brit Awards.
The game was nominated for "Best Educational Game" and "Best Puzzle Game" at The Independent Game Developers' Association Awards 2018.
His Magnetic Poetry kits consist of individual words—often related to a particular theme or topic—printed on small magnets which can be creatively arranged on a refrigerator or other metal surface.
Most spellings were not formalized until the 1970s, primarily by the writings of Jack (Wee Fuzz) June.
It can induce an intrinsically competitive nature in the player as they try to complete the task in as few words as possible." Another US college newspaper notes that Letter Boxed can be "frustrating" due the inclusion of words such as "azurite and erythrocyte".
Then, each following player in sequence (usually clockwise or counterclockwise) must come up with a word beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
I grew up loving Ronnie Barker and can only hope the news that I am to give a talk in his name doesn't leave him spitting spiritedly splenetic spoonerisms in comedy heaven.
The app currently has over 20,000,000 downloads worldwide, and each player remains active, on average, for 12 minutes a day.
häipyvät tavut [hä-ipyvät ta-vut] → [ta-ipyvät hä-vut] → taipuvat hävyt That is, transformation is A, U, O into Ä, Y, Ö, if the former do not begin the word.
He was the subject of several anecdotes and eventually a comprehensive twelve-page biography by Robert Funt.
In some cases, the identical spelling of a word in two languages is coincidental; in other cases, it is because they descend from the same ancestor word.
Uciredor) of alternate and invented names being created out of anadromes of real names; a proper noun conceived in this way is sometimes called an ananym, especially if it is used as personal pseudonym.
Dick, Contact Carl Sagan, Tim O'Brien Going after Cacciato, Dan Brown Lost Symbol, and The Martian Chronicles Ray Bradbury.
It was the third game published in the puzzles section on the New York Times website after the Crossword and Spelling Bee.
French Portez ce vieux whisky au juge blond qui fume Take this old whisky to the blond judge who is smoking Uses each basic consonant once, though not any letters with diacritics.
Techniques Tom Swifties A form of humorous writing where adverbs are chosen to reflect the nature of the situation in a punning way.
To Bergerson's surprise, his joke had fooled even his publisher.) Besides the titular forms of wordplay, the book devotes chapters to vocabularyclept poetry (a special form of anagrammatic poetry in which the words of a poem are rearranged into a new poem) and written charades.
Safire later authored a book titled Fumblerules: A Lighthearted Guide to Grammar and Good Usage, which was reprinted in 2005 as How Not to Write: The Essential Misrules of Grammar.
For example, the word clip can mean "attach," as in paperclip, or "cut off," as in "clip the hedges." Since a contranym has at least two meaning, it is by definition polysemic.
Donc, ma nouvelle adresse dans ce train de nulle part : voiture 12, 3e compartiment dans le sens de la marche.
Critics state that the meme destroys Hangul and is a type of verbal violence, but supporters state that it is just a part of culture and improves the Korean language.
A joke about the Fuller Brush Company merging with Schick razors to become the "Fuller Schick Company" (i.e.
Once every word is found, the remaining letters will spell out the solution, or "Wonderword" in order.
The sentence is also used to show the semantic vagueness of the word had, as well as to demonstrate the difference between using a word and mentioning a word.
However, as of the middle of 2014 the game is published by Raketspel and is no longer published by Rovio Stars.
Venezolario includes regional vocabulary, such as from the western region and Zulia, and features collectible cards with expressions, characters, cuisine, and traditional symbols, weekly tournaments where players compete, and achievements for reaching specific goals.
The most popular variant of the game is known as chengyu jielong (成語接龍), which involves four character idioms instead.
Reception Computer Gaming World stated that "Wordtris, like its predecessors, is as infuriating as it is incredibly addictive ...
It can also be used for older or adult learners of a foreign language, where the challenge of speaking comprehensibly, and understanding, is more difficult because of the low volume, and hence a greater mastery of the fine points of pronunciation is required.
International versions Home games The Milton Bradley Company introduced the first home version of Password in 1962 and subsequently released 24 editions of the game until 1986.
Winning strategy Since the game tree of Ghost can be derived from the list of combinations of letters that are considered to be words, the game (as played by two players) can be easily "solved" to find a winning strategy for one player.
See also Argot Pig Latin Tutnese or Double Dutch, similar rules Ubbi dubbi Javanais Gibberish == References ==
This can be done by adding extra elements to the stick figure, like a face or shoes, or by first drawing elements of the gallows for every mistake before starting to draw the stick figure.
The comedy effect comes from the word "sisi", which is a baby talk for "tits" in Russian, i.e., it may be heard as "bloody tits".
Other languages Verbs The Romanian verb a închiria, the French verb louer, the Afrikaans verb huur, the Finnish verb vuokrata and the Spanish alquilar and arrendar mean "to rent" (as the lessee does) as well as "to let" (as the lessor does).
Word games are spoken, board, card or video games often designed to test ability with language or to explore its properties.
The exact origins of this language remain uncertain, but scholars and historians agree that it was created in the early 20th century by local prisoners to communicate with each other without being understood by guards.
Electromagnetic spectrum In the order of increasing frequency or decreasing wavelength of electromagnetic waves; Road Men Invented Very Unique Xtra Gums Ronald McDonald Invented Very Unusual & eXcellent Gherkins.
Here Come the ABCs, a 2005 children's album by They Might Be Giants, contains the song "I C U", which is entirely made up of gramograms.
Verses in limerick form are sometimes combined with a refrain to form a limerick song, a traditional humorous drinking song often with obscene verses.
Acquisition of the cognitive maps The cognitive map is generated from a number of sources, both from the visual system and elsewhere.
The neural correlates of a cognitive map have been speculated to be the place cell system in the hippocampus and the recently discovered grid cells in the entorhinal cortex.
Also there is another type of šatrovački, where the words are reconstructed by addition of letter P followed by the vowel preceding the inserted P after each syllable.
Sylleptic/heteronymic Syllepsis, or heteronymy, is a form of punning where a single word simultaneously affects the rest of the sentence, while it changes the meaning of the idiom it is used in.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
Sanskrit Sanskrit pangrams focus on consonants alone, since Sandhi rules make it extremely difficult to create a pangram showing vowels distinctly.
So if you guess PEACHY and the secret word was OTHERS, you get a reply of 0 (because the E and H are in the wrong positions).
Rhymes in this general sense are classified according to the degree and manner of the phonetic similarity: syllabic: a rhyme in which the last syllable of each word sounds the same but does not necessarily contain stressed vowels.
A fumblerule is a rule of language or linguistic style, humorously written in such a way that it breaks this rule.
Brazil also had a show in the 1960s and again from 2012 to 2013 called Let's Play Hangman, hosted by Silvio Santos.
Latin Veni, Vidi, Vici: a famous Latin sentence reportedly written by Julius Caesar Pugna Porcorum: a Latin poem written by John Placentius (under the pen name "Publius Porcius").
Pictoword School also became a finalist at The EdTech Cool Tool Awards 2023 for the “Language Learning Solution” criteria.
From a folkloric point of view, the form is essentially transgressive; violation of taboo is part of its function.
He also suggests an alternative term, asogram, to avoid confusion with lines of constant value such as contour lines, but uses isogram in the article itself.
Examples: Mueter 'mother' → Ieter-mee gib-ere 'give-her' → ibere-gee Schnure 'mouth' → Ire-schnee For words that begin with vowel sounds, add the syllable ee to the end of the word, or hee if the word ends in a vowel, and change the first vowel into i.
Unlike typical anadromes, these anadromic formations often do not conform to any real names or words.
See also Anagram Back slang, use of invented anadromes as coded language List of geographic anagrams and ananyms Palindrome Verlan Category:Names derived from word reversals Notes References Room, Adrian (2010-07-26).
A twin kangaroo is a kangaroo word that contains two joey words (for example: container features both tin and can, magister features both master and mister).
The game was also published in Google Play Pass on June 27, 2024 and is only available via subscription.
Hotten's Dictionary included the first known "Glossary of the Rhyming Slang", which included later mainstays such as frog and toad 'the main road' and apples and pears 'stairs', as well as many more obscure examples, e.g.
In September 2014, "Summer" was named the song of the summer by Spotify; it was the most listened-to track since June 2014 with more than 160 million plays.
English frequently makes use of diphthongs, which is an issue for back slang since diphthongs cannot be reversed.
In 1946, he published an account in the New Statesman of being a "pavement artist" making coins from passersby for his chalk art, and the article earned further coverage including a five-minute appearance on BBC.
The magazine organizes the SymmyS Awards, an annual palindrome competition named after a 1991 book by Hugo Brandt Corstius (writing as Battus) and adjudicated by a celebrity panel.
Keep any heat by the fine China dinner set Your man's caught the chill and it ain't even winter yet A farmer says, "I got soaked for nothing, stood out there in the rain bang in the middle of my land, a complete waste of time.
It is often used by laypeople to evaluate a machine translation system, or to test whether a text is suitable for MT when they are unfamiliar with the target language.
Example: "Spooner's criminal with nurse finding hiding places." (4,3,6) Solution: NOOK AND CRANNY (Spoonerism of CROOK AND NANNY).
Due to it requiring a good knowledge of vocabulary, it's often played with preschoolers to improve their language skills, often being considered a typical childhood game.
In the 1966 book What's in a Name?, Paul Dickson, among other peculiar types of surnames, has a section on aptronyms which includes a list of aptronyms selected from his large collection.
In BreakAway, the player is given a 4x4x4 cube of letters and must find word combinations to remove letters.
Problem 84 contains the earliest known example in print of the repetitive homonym "Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo".
Initially, the board features 16 tiles, and additional ones are incorporated as the game progresses.
Merriam-Webster's Befudiom is a word game where teams are challenged to guess selected idioms by acting, shouting, drawing, or spelling them out.
Like his earlier single "Feel So Close" and his later single "My Way", Harris returns as a vocalist on "Summer".
An instance of this is the following one, filled out by Father Commire: In 1701 Etienne Mallemans (d.
References Bibliography Aldofre e Nigiova Di Nobru, "Il Riocontra illutostra", Giulio è in Audi editore, 2017 See also Jargon Verlan Vesre Furbesco Farfallino alphabet
Apensar (aka Wordie) is a "brain trainer" mobile game, developed by ICO Group in 2013 (now known as The Fastmind).
Usage The sentence can be given as a grammatical puzzle or an item on a test, for which one must find the proper punctuation to give it meaning.
Experimental Canadian poet Christian Bök's Eunoia is a univocalic that uses only one vowel in each of its five chapters.
Word Ways was the first periodical devoted exclusively to word play, and has become the foremost publication in that field.
These landmarks are processed by the hippocampus together to provide a graph of the environment through relative locations.
In March 2011, "Grass Mud Horse" themed merchandise, such as plush dolls, began being sold over the Internet.
How to play The words are found in all directions — vertically, horizontally, diagonally and backwards.
Oliver wrote that his name had been, in his family, "the burden of the eldest or only son for six generations".
Documented initially in the 19th century, Verlan was used as a coded language by criminals in effort to conceal illicit activities from others, including police.
It incorporates elements from games like Pictionary, Charades, and 25 Words or Less to create a party game with "a little bit of everything".
The 1980 levels available are grouped in packs of 20, starting with a grid size of 2x2 and reaching 8x8 in the later packs.
References External links Big Taboo page, Link to Big Taboo page on Winning Moves USA's website Rules, Link to the game's rules on the Winning Moves USA site BoardGameGeek Big Taboo page, Link to the game on Boardgamegeek.com
Vesre (from Spanish (al) revés 'reverse') is the reversing of the order of syllables within a word in Spanish.
Some assert that the jargon was created by the women, children, and young men in the hop fields and sheep-shearing sheds as a means of recreation, and that it spread through the community as the children continued using it when they grew up.
The meaning "trite, commonplace, unimportant, slight" occurs from the late 16th century, notably in the works of Shakespeare.
Each round ends when either one player fills the word rack, or time runs out without either player being able to make another word.
A boy asking a friend to go with him says, 'Wig-ge you-ge go-ge wig-ge me-ge?' The other, replying in the negative says, 'Noge, Ige woge.'".
Examples The table below summarizes and gives examples of this formation (the cell is left blank when the change does not apply to that term).
On other spaces, clues must be drawn, limited to 15 words, or acted out using "Bendy Bob", a purple plush character included with the game.
The stage name of Belgian pop artist and songwriter Stromae (real name Paul Van Haver) is verlan for maestro.
This article lists common homophonous puns in Mandarin Chinese, though many of the examples given are homophones in other varieties as well.
The recipient of the challenge must then provide a valid reserve word which contains the word-stem in play.
African Americans in the southeastern United States created Tutnese to covertly teach spelling and reading.
In Chinese languages, a similar game is known as jielong (接龍), where players start new words with the last hanzi of the preceding word.
A paraprosdokian (), or par'hyponoian, is a figure of speech in which the latter part of a sentence, phrase, or larger discourse is surprising or unexpected in a way that causes the reader or listener to reframe or reinterpret the first part.
The Chinese interpretation of 4 as unlucky is a more recent development, considering there are many examples, sayings and elements of the number 4 considered as auspicious instead in Chinese history.
Use Some language games such as Pig Latin are so widely known that privacy is virtually impossible, as most people have a passable understanding of how it works and the words can sound very similar to their English counterpart.
This type of punning can often be seen in literature, particularly in works that play extensively with language.
An alternade is a word in which its letters, taken alternatively in a strict sequence, and used in the same order as the original word, make up at least two other words.
Vanity Fair reported in December 2023 that The New York Times was developing a word search game to add to their online library of games.
History and description Although Boontling is based on English, many of its unusual words are unique to Boonville, California.
Beginning in St Kilda Library in Melbourne, Australia, the starting phrase "Life must be lived as play" (a paraphrase of Plato) had become "He bites snails" by the time the game reached its end in Alaska 26 hours later.
In a 2017 interview on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Bush recalled a joke argument with SNL's Lorne Michaels about whether an SNL writer or Bush himself had actually coined the term.
Cryptmaster was created after many iterations of an idea in which words were the core gameplay mechanic.
Design After deciding on the controls early, Williams and Hart worked on merging combat with typing.
Syntactic ambiguity Demonstrations of ambiguity between alternative syntactic structures underlying a sentence.
25 Words or Less is a party board game in which two teams of players take turns bidding words back and forth, until one team allows the other to try to give that number of clues to their team to try guessing five words from a card in only one minute.
A player with at least 2,500 points is considered vulnerable; at least 500 points must be scored in a turn, or 500 points are deducted from their score.
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
However, the guesser can also win by guessing all the letters that appear in the word, thereby completing the word, before the diagram is completed.
In the case of 'Nolo mortem peccatoris' by Thomas Morley, the Latin is used as a refrain: Translated: "'I do not wish the death of the wicked'; These are the words of the Saviour." An allusion to John 3:17 and 2 Peter 3:9.
The first line traditionally introduces a person and a place, with the place appearing at the end of the first line and establishing the rhyme scheme for the second and fifth lines.
A quip is an observation or saying that has some wit but perhaps descends into sarcasm, or otherwise is short of a point.
Reception It was ranked the tenth best-selling toy in 1993 for the United States according to a survey by Playthings - thus being the only board game to be on Playthings' Top 10 list.
They are violent and extraordinary, and are employed by substitution, to signify analogous acts of extreme oppression and tyranny.
It is not purely lipogrammatic, however, because the outlawed letters do appear in the text proper from time to time (the characters being penalized with banishment for their use) and when the plot requires a search for pangram sentences, all twenty-six letters are obviously in use.
Gameplay The object of the game is to build words of three letters or more using the tiles that fall from the top of the playing area.
Gameplay In standard Boggle, the player is given a 4x4 grid of lettered dice, and the player must then find as many possible words in the grid of letters.
in general or specifically its government, likely from the initials "U.S." John Bull – the UK in general or specifically, its government (originally an attack against the Whigs, their foreign policy, and their financiers who were profiting from wars with other nations).
Recently the word "ntur" has gotten popular for presumably letting you continue the game after being trapped with "nt".
双关语; 雙關語; shuāngguānyǔ has the same meaning as a pun but has a more formal or literary register, such as 'double-entendre' in English.
Thus, the number is used for the measurements and naming of the official state car of CCP General Secretary Xi Jinping, or the Hongqi L5.
The ED/IES SBIR funds entrepreneurial developers to create the next generation of education technology for students, teachers, and administrators in general and special education.
The pretext for the fatal stop was a broken tail light, but the real reason was that the police officer thought Castile resembled a robbery suspect.
Carl Jung theorized that people connect ideas, feelings, experiences and information by way of associations ...
Today, the books (and subsequent films) are so well known in Sweden, and also in Norway, that the language is part of the culture of schoolchildren.
The other players are then required to write plausible first or last sentences for the book, handing their efforts over to the reader, who has meanwhile copied the correct line onto a similar piece of paper, which they shuffle amongst the 'fake' scripts.
Background The earliest known one-syllable article was a draft of Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den published in Volume 11 of The Chinese Student's Monthly by Yuen Ren Chao, who credited mathematician and contemporary Hu Mingfu 胡明复 with its creation.
Today, many bars and restaurants host weekly trivia nights in an effort to draw in more patrons, especially during weeknights.
The nominal value or minimum sale price for an item can be listed on a tag for the salesperson's reference while being visible but meaningless to the customer.
As a result, the reader is freed from the obsession to find the 'right answer' through speculation and instead can concentrate on enjoying nuances and being awed by how the slightest shift in perception creates a new meaning.
No name was chosen until five years later (1958), when Stern and Price were eating Eggs Benedict at a restaurant in New York City.
Grammelot (or gromalot or galimatias) is an imitation of language used in satirical theatre, an ad hoc gibberish that uses prosody along with macaronic and onomatopoeic elements to convey emotional and other meaning, and used in association with mime and mimicry.
Fú dào le - 福到了 "fortune has arrived" and 福倒了 "fortune is upside down", the latter simply referring to the character 福 (fú), which when displayed upside down denotes one's good fortune has arrived.
Such a game can be played with each player starting the game with three lives, and losing one every time they receive a "Bad!" judgement.
Considering the novel a step towards literature comparable with the artistic impact of Dadaism and surrealism, Thaler surmised, "The verb is like a weed in a field of flowers.
Boontling was invented in the late 19th century and had quite a following at the turn of the 20th century.
Reception GamePro wrote: "WordZap is guaranteed to satisfy the bored traveler, or wannabe vocabulary whizz." References External links Official website
Sometimes, a lot of the game's fun can arise from the seemingly strange or amusing associations that people make between words.
Villagers try to find out the magic word before the time is up while the werewolves are trying to mislead them.
ŋ́gɔ́zɪ́ wṹ lêm "Ngozi died" becomes: ńtgɔ́tzɪ́ twṹ tlêm or ńtʊ́gɔ́tɪ́zɪ́ tṹwṹ tílèm Here we have some RTR and nasal vowels.
A player must also employ simple strategies to ensure that the final word contains the proper number of letters required for them to win: an even number if they made the first move, or an odd number if they played the second move.
The word "god" is capitalized to "God" when referring to the single deity of monotheistic religions such as Christianity, Judaism, or Islam, and common to capitalize pronouns related to God (He, Him, His, etc.) as well; this practice is followed by many versions of the Bible, such as the NKJV.
The game continues with more objects being added, and a player is disqualified if they forget one of the previously occurring items or can not think of a new item to add to the bag.
Music video The music video for "Summer" was directed by Emil Nava and premiered on 6 April 2014, with a cameo appearance by English actor Jason Statham.
Cependant, coïncidence curieuse, cinq catcheurs corpulents, cachés chez Célestins, complotaient contre cette civilisation capitaliste complètement corrompue.
The first Monsieur et Madame jokes In 1969, during the shooting of Claude Chabrol's film This Man Must Die, Michel Duchaussoy and Jean Yanne played this game.
Reverse lipogram A reverse lipogram, also known as an antilipo or transgram is a type of constrained writing where each word must contain a particular letter in the text.
David Warhol provided sound engines and musical arrangements for both the Game Boy and SNES versions.
Other examples are the YAML language, which stands for "YAML ain't markup language" and PHP language meaning "PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor".
While the characters used in a one-syllable article have many different meanings, they are all pronounced as the same syllable, although not with the same tone.
White supremacy In a Boston rally on July 2, 1966, Oliver embarrassed Welch by proclaiming at a speech that: "If only by some miracle all the Bolsheviks or all the Illuminati or all the Jews were vaporized at dawn tomorrow, we should have nothing to worry about".
As Finnish is a mora-divided language, it is morae that are exchanged, not syllables (often a mora is also a syllable in a Finnish word, but not always).
Gameplay In Connections, the goal is to divide a grid of sixteen terms into four groups of four such that the terms in each group belong to a specific category (e.g., "dog", "cat", "fish", and "parrot" for the category "Household Pets").
For example, in the case of things commonly found in the kitchen that start with the letter K, both knife (a kitchen tool) and kelp (a type of food that is commonly cooked in kitchens around the world) are acceptable answers.
An Irish bull is a ludicrous, incongruent or logically absurd statement, generally unrecognized as such by its author.
Through describing and correctly guessing keywords, teams advance their respective pawns around a spiraling track.
A novel Gorm, Son of Hardecnut (Горм, сын Хёрдакнута) (see Gorm the Old) by Peter Vorobieff is written in Russian without any words borrowed from English, French, Latin, or modern German since the 17th century.
In English "Mr & Mrs jokes" have been commonly featured in the "late arrivals" round of the radio panel show "I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue", broadcast on BBC Radio 4 since 1972, where the contestants announce the arrival of fictional guests.
This practice also resembles Jin, another Sinitic language, in its process of splitting a monosyllabic word into two syllables.
More often than not, however, the format is simply a conceit which enables the author to expound the results of his lexicographic and logological discoveries.
"Oliver's writings on Jews and race-mixing became an important part of neo-Nazi culture in the early twenty-first century," according to Andrew S.
The playing space is a dark blue vertical frame, held upright by two detachable black feet, with 11 x 11 square holes with 75 wooden block lettered playing pieces available to place within that frame.
Originally, the maximum value of a password was 10 points, with a cash prize awarded to the first team to reach 25 points.
WordSpot is a fast-paced word search board game where players use transparent tokens to highlight words found on a board of wooden letter tiles.
'Javanese (language)') is a type of French slang where the extra syllable ⟨av⟩ is infixed inside a word after every consonant that is followed by a vowel, in order to render it incomprehensible.
On February 10, Wordle officially moved to The New York Times website, with player statistics carried over.
Remember My Instructions Visible Under X-Ray Glasses Raging (or Red) Martians Invaded Venus Using X-ray Guns.
Yuantang is a subdialect spoken by Hakka speakers at Yuantang (Chinese: 苑塘), a village in southern China.
Kalodont or kaladont is a South Slavic word game, popular in Croatia, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and North Macedonia, in which players in turn say words, each beginning with the last two letters of the previous word.
There is always at least one word that can be made using all of the available letters, and the rules may require that a maximum length word be found.
After each word, the word kontti "container" is added, the first syllables are switched, so every sentence is converted to twice as many pseudo-words.
Just as an autogram is a sentence that describes itself, so there exist closed chains of sentences each of which describes its predecessor in the chain.
If the named animal contains the letter chosen by Aesop, he denounces them as deserving of punishment and they must perform a forfeit; otherwise they are acquitted as innocent.
Once everyone has done so, the first player describes the cat with an adjective beginning with the letter 'B'.
The emergence of insulated glazing and glass-manufacturing companies also caused the people of Mărgău to lose customers.
'Had had' had had a better effect on the teacher" That that is is that that is not is not is that it it is.
There is another French argot called largonji, which differs from louchébem only in the suffix that is added (-i instead of -em); the term is derived from jargon.
The sports edition features the same gameplay as the regular version, with each grouping sports-themed.
In the sequel, Sallows built an electronic "pangram machine", that performed a systematic search among millions of candidate solutions.
Other recognition A copy of Buyword is held in the "Sid Sackson Portal" collection of the Strong National Museum of Play (object 107.873).
The game involves describing the eponymous cat using adjectives beginning with each letter of the alphabet.
Nofon èfe fafacifilefe, afanchefe peferchèfe vafa defettofo ifil pifiùfu vefelofocefe pofossifibifilefe Its translation in Italian is: Questo è un esempio di frase in alfabeto farfallino.
Literature Dream of the Red Chamber – Similar to Dickens or Dostoevsky, Cao Xueqin chose many of the names of his characters in Dream of the Red Chamber to be homophones with other words which hint at their qualities.
Longest examples In the book Language on Vacation: An Olio of Orthographical Oddities, Dmitri Borgmann tries to find the longest such word.
The next person then says "I packed my bag and in it I put...", followed by the original suggestion, and adding their own.
leche → chele (milk, used primarily to refer to semen) libro → broli (book) e.g., (usually plural) "¡Che, agarrá los brolis más seguido!" (Dude, get the books and learn something!) amigo → gomía (friend) e.g., "¡Eh!, ¡¿qué hacés gomía?!" (Hey!
Bananagrams is also similar to Syzygy, a letter-tile game released in 1997, and the 1999 game Double Quick.
As a consequence to this "natural" property, some shapes appear more or less appropriate to handle for the designer.
The game was invented by Wendy Hampton, a single mother from Atlanta, Georgia, who was looking to entertain her bored daughter.
On Mondays and Tuesdays the Polygon has a total of seven letters, and answer words must be at least three letters in length.
Swedish Flygande bäckasiner söka hwila på mjuka tuvor Flying snipes seek rest on soft tussocks Missing q, x and z.
But these experiments, led again later by other researchers (for example by Eichenbaum, Stewart, & Morris, 1990 and by Singer et al.
This was later reduced to 12, and program delays and technical problems pushed the first launch from 2006 to 2010.
At each candidate user position, the predicted satellite visibility is matched with the real observations.
Although often used to form hybrid spread-spectrum (SS) systems, TH is strictly speaking a non-SS technique.
Lone Worker and Field Staff Safety: Employers, including humanitarian aid organizations, use these devices to monitor and protect employees who work in remote, isolated, or high-risk environments.
"When the Virtual and Real Worlds Collide: Beginning to Address the Clash Between Real Property Rights and Augmented Reality Location-Based Technologies Through a Federal Do-Not-Locate Registry".
These providers also study business processes within the supply chain and help optimize each process.
However, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas transponders cannot be used on any tolled roads maintained by the Central Florida Expressway Authority.
By fixing a special marker with designs that result in moiré patterns, a camera can infer the pose of the marker and the object to which it is attached.
Specifications The phone is capable of receiving signals of two Global Navigation Satellite Systems: GLONASS and GPS.
To do this, it captures the P(Y) signal that is broadcast on two frequencies, L1 and L2, and compares the effects of the ionosphere on the propagation time of the two.
The Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) is used by devices equipped and used in North America—the accuracy is considered to be within 3 m at least 95% of the time.
If the bill is not paid within 30 days from the date of the bill, it may escalate to include fees, civil penalties, DMV registration holds, submission to a collection agency, or all of the above.
The path that a vessel follows is called a track or, in the case of aircraft, ground track (also known as course made good or course over the ground).
Accuracy of these systems depends on if the site has a base station that can relay site specific corrections.
Hard tags, typically used for clothing or ink tags, known as benefit denial tags, may reduce the rate of tag manipulation.
Details To achieve LPI, the transmission time is changed randomly by varying the period and duty cycle of the pulse (carrier) using a pseudo-random sequence.
In addition to the OEM built-in options, selected Freightliner trucks offer a pre-wired option that makes it simpler to add the required hardware for tracking trucks.
Pointr are also supported by Level 39 (the Fintech Accelerator programme for Canary Wharf Group) and have installed their technology there to locate colleagues and assist new users navigating the venue.
Besides toll rings, road tolls are installed to finance certain road projects, and often also on the existing road to discourage people from using it.
For example, if the preferences of a user are encoded in the query string of a URL and the user sends this URL to another user by e-mail, those preferences will be used for that other user as well.
For example, to create a pulse of about 1 ns duration, roughly sufficient to identify location to within 0.3 m (1 foot), a bandwidth of roughly 1 GHz is required.
Technology Wikiloc runs on Linux, with a PostgreSQL database manager with PostGIS for geography support, Apache software, Hibernate, GEOS, GDAL, PROJ.4, and with some Python for preprocess and maintenance.
The company launched its SkyTerra 1 satellite from Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on November 14, 2010.
The Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II is built with the equivalent of the Sniper XR in its onboard sensors called the AN/AAQ-40 Electro-Optical Targeting System (EOTS).
In 2007, four United States Army Apache helicopters were destroyed on the ground by Iraqi insurgent mortar fire; the insurgents had made use of embedded coordinates in web-published photographs (geotagging) taken of the helicopters by soldiers.
On February 14, 2012, the FCC initiated proceedings to vacate LightSquared's Conditional Waiver Order based on the NTIA's conclusion that there was currently no practical way to mitigate potential GPS interference.
Membership is managed through a sponsorship system, and each cache is under continual peer review from other members.
gpsd supports interfacing with the Network Time Protocol (NTP) server ntpd via shared memory to enable setting the host platform's time via the GPS clock.
In February 2021, Post-IDFA alliance surveyed 600 customers and noted that 38.5% of them said they plan to allow tracking by tapping "yes" in the App Tracking Transparency prompt.
With the advent of Google Maps and the proliferation of wireless data services from Sprint and AT&T, Hunter founded US Fleet Tracking in 2005.
The Chirp stores hints, multicache coordinates, counts visitors, and can confirm the cache is nearby.
Authors gpsd was originally written by Remco Treffkorn with Derrick Brashear, then maintained by Russell Nelson.
Northbound, the toll road begins just before Orewa and ends via a pair of road tunnels through the Johnstone Hills near Puhoi.
The sampling interval, which is the inverse of the sampling rate, in meters per sample, must be ≤ λ 2 {\displaystyle \leq {\frac {\lambda }{2}}} .
They could also drive on GPS until their vehicles were out of fuel, mired, or disabled; succumbed to hazardous climate or weather conditions, or become lost.
On January 13, 2026 the company announced they are targeting $6 Billion valuation in their pending IPO.
Isuzu Motors America discontinued the sale of passenger vehicles in the United States on January 31, 2009.
A survey reported in 2004 of GPS tracking of motorists visiting the Acadia National Park in Maine, United States was assisted by use of Topofusion to review the scenes visited.
Causes There are multiple reasons why people following GPS directions have become lost, been injured, or died.
In June 2009, Research in Motion has acquired Dash Navigation, and discontinued service and support of the Dash Express product effective June 30, 2010.
The Interagency GPS Executive Board (IGEB) was an agency of the United States federal government that sought to integrate the needs and desires of various governmental agencies into formal Global Positioning System Planning.
While examining possibly related events of weather-related loss of ADIRS, the NTSB decided to investigate two similar cases on cruising A330s.
The company was founded by Ken Schmier, Bryce Nesbitt and Paul Freda in 1997 in Emeryville, California with U.S.
The program requires 10 semesters of full-time studies, after which students receive the professional title of Ingeniero(a) Telemático(a).
Volume multiplexing and Clip Mechanism If a network is composed of many Controllers and a large number of Responders, the Controllers' requests are synchronized as well as Responders' responses (the "Clip" mechanism).
Several city and state officials attended the center’s grand opening, including Missouri Governor Mike Kehoe.
Match Analysis records and verifies over 2,500 distinct events per football match with every touch by every player catalogued, synchronized against video feeds, and stored in a searchable video database.
Active aircraft tracking There are several active aircraft tracking systems available on the market that use the "bread-crumb approach" to SAR.
More importantly, there are effects that might cause the GPS system to become unusable over wide areas, notably space weather events and potential EMP events.
Though one of the cheapest and easiest methods to implement, its disadvantage is that it does not provide very good precision (median of 2–4m), because the RSSI measurements tend to fluctuate according to changes in the environment or multipath fading.
This only works for continuous, narrow-band waveforms because of the relation between phase θ {\displaystyle \theta } , frequency f {\displaystyle f} and time T {\displaystyle T} : θ = 2 π f ⋅ T .
GNSS satellite signals have been shown to be vulnerable due to the signals' being relatively weak on Earth's surface.
Unlike some geo-referencing applications, the NavPix Library writes the georeference values to the image itself via the Exif meta data.
The service is opt-out, meaning it will be enabled on client applications without the user's consent unless disabled.
On 10 December 2003, the second generation satellite design, GLONASS-M, was launched for the first time.
Manufacturing continued to ramp up as the decade came to a close, and by the mid-1950s, Furuno was producing various Marine supplements, such as early examples of commercial Marine radars.
International regulation The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) defines a radionavigation-satellite service (RNSS) as "a radiodetermination-satellite service used for the purpose of radionavigation.
The watch can have other features and capabilities depending on its intended purpose and be a smartwatch.
Post-mission data processing is performed to further refine the results, with two-dimensional positioning accuracies of 1 to 2 meters and impact timing accuracies of 1-2 milliseconds demonstrated.
Driveway Software is a telematics company that provides a smartphone-based platform for the usage-based insurance (UBI) industry.
Pointr have created a GPS-like experience with true position and turn-by-turn navigation that is supported by most modern smartphones operating on both Android and iOS.
Based on these findings, researchers who had been tracking click data realized there might be more to learn from the mouse.
This makes it relatively unappealing for applications such as fleet tracking, where centimeter-scale precision is generally not worth the extra complexity, and more useful in areas like robotics, where there may already be an assumption of onboard processing power and frequent data transfer.
The WGS 84 meridian of zero longitude is the IERS Reference Meridian, 5.3 arc seconds or 102 metres (335 ft) east of the Greenwich meridian at the latitude of the Royal Observatory.
Some scientific questions that addressed by the EarthScope project and the PBO data include: How does accumulated strain lead to earthquakes?
This technology is the foundation for a wide range of applications, from consumer services for finding lost or stolen devices to enterprise platforms for fleet management and employee monitoring.
It was established by Presidential Directive in 2004 and supersedes the Interagency GPS Executive Board.
Differing from iBeacon, Google beacons use not only Bluetooth but also WiFi and near ultrasonic sounds to communicate between devices.
A Notice Advisory to Navstar Users (NANU) is a message issued jointly by the United States Coast Guard and the GPS Operations Center at Schriever Space Force Base in Colorado.
Requirement Hardware-wise, a GNSS receiver is needed to interpret satellite signals and compute the user’s location.
A search process detects whether a GNSS satellite is present or not in an area of the sky, based on correlation of a received signal with a reference signal stored in the receiver.
Corporate history ERM Advanced Telematics was founded in May 1985 as ERM Electronic Systems Ltd by Meir Hayman.
These signals are broadcast on marine longwave frequencies, which could be received on existing radiotelephones and fed into suitably equipped GPS receivers.
Differencing the results of two such calculations yields the delay difference sought ( τ i {\displaystyle \tau _{i}} in equation 3).
Many location-based video games are video games that run on a mobile phone, using its GPS capability.
PRNs are the "pseudo-random noise" sequences, or Gold codes, that each satellite transmits to differentiate itself from other satellites in the active constellation.
It may incorporate GRIB weather overlay on the chart, Tide predictions and other related information services of additional use to mariners.
A pseudorange that differs significantly from the expected value (i.e., an outlier) may indicate a fault of the associated satellite or another signal integrity problem (e.g., ionospheric dispersion).
Hawaii In March 2025, while on a joint hike in Hawaii intended to repair their marriage, Arielle Konig was attacked by her husband, Dr.
For instance, if the number of fast ticks is even, a 0 is chosen, and if the number of ticks is odd, a 1 is chosen.
One such example application is Alabama Freedom Pass mobile, used to link customer accounts at sites operated by American Roads LLC.
Examples of radio stations in the radiolocation-satellite service Frequency allocation The allocation of radio frequencies is provided according to Article 5 of the ITU Radio Regulations (edition 2012).
High-sensitivity receivers use large banks of correlators and digital signal processing to search for signals very quickly.
A location-based game (also called location-enabled game, geolocation-based game, or simply geo game) is a type of game in which the gameplay evolves and progresses via a player's real world location.
Network devices IEEE 1902.1 supports the design of networks constituted by two devices: Controllers and Responders, based on a simplified IEEE MAC layer.
At the end of this procedure, two range values are determined and an average of the two can be used to achieve a fairly accurate distance measurement between these two stations.
Because it is difficult to measure the TEC along the line of sight, instead a prediction can be made using a simplified model of the ionosphere.
Warm or normal The receiver has estimates of the current time within 20 seconds, the current position within 100 kilometers, its velocity within 25 m/s, and it has valid almanac data.
It was responsible for maintenance of a GPS Ground Antenna, Monitor Station, and various operational test assets.
Accordingly, the Court ruled that, under the Fourth Amendment, the government must obtain a search warrant in order to access historical CSLI records.
The objective is to improve individual and team performance and/or analyze opposition patterns of play to give tactical advantage.
Several email tracking services also feature real-time notifications, producing an on-screen pop-up whenever the sender's email has been opened.
Non-Asset Mobile Tracking Applications Persons may be tracked within a controlled geographical area; e.g.
Legacy radio-based system The original LoJack was a radio-based, hardware tracking system designed to prevent theft of a vehicle and aid in the vehicle’s recovery by transmitting vehicle location data to the LoJack receiver.
The term gained attention in the second half of the 2020s as online discussions and viral videos describing partners left behind on remote trails and mountains became popular.
These types of sensors are used in video game controllers, such as Microsoft's Kinect, and in motion capture for movie and television production.
Since the early 2010s, a new generation of navigational messages broadcast by many satellites now include "GNSS Time Offset" parameters for converting between time references, allowing receivers to forgo this estimation when needed.
Typical applications for this technology are tagging and locating assets in buildings, for which room-level accuracy (~3m) is usually enough.
The GPS data captured by the GIB was modulated over the analog VHF acoustic data stream using frequency-shift keying (FSK).
In recent years, Android and iPhone users can download apps such as GeoBeagle that allow them to use their 3G and GPS-enabled devices to actively search for and download new caches.
is an example of a company that has such a database and partners with other companies to aid with their web mining.
Technology Some location-based games that are video games have used embedded mobile technologies such as near field communication, Bluetooth and UWB.
This process is only approximate, and non-dispersive sources of delay remain (notably from water vapor moving around in the troposphere), but it improves accuracy significantly.
Messages and files at any point in the system can then be audited for correctness and completeness, using the traceability key to find the particular transaction.
GPS was administered by the Department of Defense, but had grown to service a wide variety of constituents.
The WAAS specification mandates availability as 99.999% (five nines) throughout the service area, equivalent to a downtime of just over 5 minutes per year.
By using a time-multiplexed scheme called TM-GPS, the reception of the telephone call and the GPS signal are alternated one after the other, requiring only one radio receiver.
A person can undergo a polysomnograph during an overnight stay in either a hospital or in a sleep center (a laboratory).
With the purchase of a subscription, SPOT allows short (41 character) user-defined text messages which can be sent to a list of telephone numbers and e-mail addresses.
In March 2015, it was announced that Securus was selling its personal emergency response service (PERS) platform to Ogden, UT–based Freeus, LLC, sister company of AvantGuard Monitoring Systems.
Workshops will include an update on ITS news, an update on RTIG projects and working group activities, and a set of presentations based around the workshop theme.
For PRN numbers 1 to 63 they are the truncated outputs of maximal period LFSRs which vary in initial conditions and feedback polynomials.
The increase in both accuracy and reliability will significantly enhance operations while reducing non-operational periods due to weather or adversarial efforts.
The attacker causes heavy CPU load on a pseudonymous server (Tor hidden service), causing CPU heating.
Search and rescue transponder (SART) A specialized radar beacon (RACON) that emits a string of 12 dots (replaced by arcs and circles when closer) for display on an X-band radar screen when scanned.
See also BeiDou Navigation Satellite System BeiDou-2 (COMPASS) navigation system Galileo (satellite navigation) GLONASS Quasi-Zenith Satellite System == References ==
Users can share their location and messages based on their account preference, alerting friends and family to their whereabouts.
Motorized vehicle navigation Systems designed for automobiles are able to calculate routes taking into account the road network, and sometimes in real time: their popularity has led to the wide spread of navigation assistants.
In 1961, the system was declared operational and assigned to the new 1st Aerospace Surveillance and Control Squadron until 1976, as part of NORAD's Space Detection and Tracking System (SPADATS).
Dynamic positioning (DP) is a computer-controlled system to automatically maintain a vessel's position and heading by using its own propellers and thrusters.
Today toll rings circumscribe Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Haugesund, Bergen, Askøy, Bodø, Harstad, Grenland, Førde and Trondheim.
Websites like Netflix and YouTube collect information about what shows users watch, which helps them suggest more shows that they might like.
This means that using a geofencing solution, companies can now track the customers who walked into the showroom after seeing the ad.
Conversely a vertically- or horizontally-aligned single-axis tracker will lose considerably more as a result of these seasonal variations in the Sun's path.
In 2014, the USAF declared initial operational capability (IOC) milestone for the Sniper ATP-SE which included sensor and networking improvements.
In 2015, the USCG and the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) sought comments on a planned phasing-out of the U.S.
There are four effective data channels; different data can be sent on each frequency and on each antenna.
This double difference is Δ r ( Δ s ( ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) ) = Δ r ( ϕ 1 , 2 , 1 − ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) = Δ r ( ϕ 1 , 2 , 1 ) − Δ r ( ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) = ( ϕ 2 , 2 , 1 − ϕ 1 , 2 , 1 ) − ( ϕ 2 , 1 , 1 − ϕ 1 , 1 , 1 ) .
The satellites supplement and partially replace the GPS Block IIA satellites that were launched between 1990 and 1997 with a design life of 7.5 years.
Block IIF series The Block IIF series are "follow-on" satellites developed by Boeing and first designed with the operational L5 signal in mind.
Feedback to the operator is provided through audio and visual displays which allows improved control of the machine in relation to the intended or designed direction of travel.
by providing tools and support), constantly develops the standard technically, and aims at enlarging the association.
For example, SVN 049 had been assigned PRNs 01, 24, 27, and 30 at different times of its lifespan, whereas PRN 01 had been assigned to SVNs 032, 037, 049, 035, and 063 at different epochs.
Zoombak, Inc was known for developing GPS-based products that help people track things, ranging from teenage drivers to employees, pets and automobiles.
There are also concerns that some installations are intentionally reconfigured to exceed the rated specifications by the manufacturer, thereby exceeding tested and certified magnetic field levels.
The network interface provides a standardized data format for multiple concurrent client applications, such as Kismet or GPS navigation software.
Radar systems often use a combination of TOA and AOA to determine a backscattering object's position using a single receiver.
The term PNA has come into widespread use with the growing popularity of automobile navigation systems.
On a 21 May 2009 Miami–São Paulo TAM Flight 8091 registered as PT-MVB, and on a 23 June 2009 Hong Kong-Tokyo Northwest Airlines Flight 8 registered as N805NW each saw sudden loss of airspeed data at cruise altitude and consequent loss of ADIRS control.
Although the research prototype of Lumitrack currently uses visible light, it could be adapted to utilize invisible infrared light.
Both of the above types of beacons usually include an auxiliary 25-milliwatt beacon at 121.5 MHz to guide rescue aircraft.
The range of the equipment is a function of the elevation of the receiving antenna: approximately 40 miles at an elevation of 2,500 feet, 70 miles at 6,000 feet, and 100 miles at 10,000 feet.
Tanaka created an entirely new approach from GNSS that locates the receiver's position with cosmic-ray muons.
The software was developed for seven months before launching, allowing time to build and test the product.
E-GPS ( Enhanced GPS, EGPS, trademarked as eGPS) is a technology designed for mobile phones on GSM and W-CDMA networks, to augment GPS signals to deliver faster location fixes, lower cost implementations and reduced power and processing requirements.
In command to line-of-sight (CLOS), which does not require a seeker onboard the missile, LOS refers to a line from a tracking radar to the target.
Wireless triangulation is a method of determining the location of wireless nodes using IEEE 802.11 standards.
The use of yield sensors developed from new technologies, combined with the advent of GPS receivers, has been gaining ground ever since.
Fingerprints can be used to fully or partially identify individual users or devices even when cookies are turned off.
In 2019, the British oil tanker Stena Impero was the target of a spoofing attack that directed the ship into Iranian waters where it was seized by Iranian forces.
Locating in relative coordinates ID signals from a tag are received by a multiplicity of readers in a sensory network, and a position is estimated using one or more locating algorithms, such as trilateration, multilateration, or triangulation.
Operation reCAPTCHA v1 (human-assisted OCR) Scanned text is subjected to analysis by two different OCRs.
Automated Flight Following (AFF) is GPS aircraft tracking that is mandated by a government agency (or other governing body) for its contractors.
Real-time data was collected at fourteen permanent ground stations spread across Canada, and forwarded to the central station, "NRC1", in Ottawa for processing.
In a typical commercial application, such as scanning a bag of groceries, potentially hundreds of tags might be within range of the reader.
Groundhog Inc., Groundhog Technologies Inc.'s operation center in Taiwan, went public in 2022 The company's products are built on top of its Mobility Intelligence Platform, which analyzes the locations, quality of experience, context, and lifestyles of subscribers in mobile operator's network.
Due to weather conditions the wave propagation speed, for electromagnetic waves in air almost the speed of light, can change.
I-540 Toll—a project, requested by the Capital Area MPO in 2011, that will convert all of I-540 into a toll highway, in Durham and Wake counties and requires federal approvals.
References External links CDGPS (Canada-Wide DGPS Correction Service) GPS·C Distribution Using NTRIP (archived) — PDF format
Long Range Kinematic (LRK) technology is a sophisticated kinematic method developed by Magellan (formerly Thales) Navigation that optimises the advantages of dual-frequency GPS operation.
Listed at the Swiss Stock Exchange (SIX:UBXN), it has offices in the US, Singapore, China, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, India, Pakistan, Australia, Ireland, the UK, Belgium, Germany, Sweden, Finland, Italy and Greece.
Email marketing users can view reports on both aggregate response statistics and individual response over time.
Tolls As of March 1, 2021 new Palmetto Pass accounts can only be established through the Southern Connector website or agency office.
See also Activity tracker Bluetooth GPS navigation device GPS tracking unit Heart rate monitor Inertial footpod Nike+ FuelBand Pedometer Quantified Self Smart band Smartwatch == References ==
Within the first six years after its introduction, the app had been downloaded by over 200,000 drivers and had collected more than 500 million miles of driving data.
Another important factor is the length of the cables used to connect the antennas with the radio beacons at the shore, for example placed on lighthouses, or on oil rig platforms and the cable(s) to connect the antenna with the transmitter at the vessel.
An optimization for the cost and sleeping period of the Request PDUs must be done on the application layer.
It was the most popular navigation system in use through the 1980s and 90s, and its popularity led to many older systems being shut down, like Gee and Decca.
For example, the Google search engine once used cookies to allow users (even non-registered ones) to decide how many search results per page they wanted to see.
Yassan also made headlines by proposing to his girlfriend with "Marry Me" a 7,163.7 km route covering most of Japan.
The functionality was "opt in" and had to be enabled by users due to the sensitivity of location data.
The above benefits create not only convenience, but also have the potential to generate significant cost savings.
DeLorme combined state highway, county, and town maps as well as federal surveys to produce the Maine Atlas and Gazetteer which was printed in a large-format book with an initial printing of 10,000, which he marketed out of his car.
In this instance, and in the instance that some maps (of specific countries) are not standardly available, Mobile Atlas Creator (MOBAC) can be used (e.g.
Comitangelo, R.; Minervini, D.; Piovano, B., "Beam forming networks of optimum size and compactness for multibeam antennas at 900 MHz", IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium 1997, vol.
Though it is a separately licensed product, Mobile Geo is seamlessly integrated with Code Factory's popular screen readers – Mobile Speak for Pocket PCs and Mobile Speak for Windows Mobile Smartphones.
Ordinarily, cellular geolocation and a built-in GPS receiver is used to determine the location of an E911 call made from CDMA phones.
Technology The projectors cover the tracked area with structured patterns called a binary m-sequence that resemble barcodes.
Magnetic positioning is based on the iron inside buildings that create local variations in the Earth's magnetic field.
Users then interact with this processed information through frontend applications, such as a web platform for managers or mobile apps for drivers and on-the-go supervisors.
The inclusion of Google Maps Navigation in Android devices such as Motorola Droid and Nokia's announcement of free Ovi Maps has led to many people using their smartphones instead of having a separate PNA for trip navigation.
In order to uniquely distinguish over time some devices through their fingerprints, the fingerprints must be both sufficiently diverse and sufficiently stable.
Whereas the C/A PRNs are unique for each satellite, each satellite transmits a different segment of a master P-code sequence approximately 2.35 x 1014 chips long (235,000,000,000,000 chips).
This device is about the size of a pager and can be worn on the belt using the belt clip that is provided.
A main purpose of finger tracking is to enable computers to be easier to use, operating through gesture interaction.
The system is also deployed for tracking everyone in the Singapore National Centre for Infectious Diseases for contact tracing and hand hygiene monitoring.
The majority of GPS uses are now non-military, so this board was fundamental in ensuring the needs of non-military users.
MapHook is a location-based journal and social networking application that is operated by MapHook Inc., a software applications development firm based in Dulles, Virginia.
The use of two radios with a single antenna imparts new design challenges, such as leakage of the voice transmitter signal into the GPS receiver circuitry.
This technology is also combined with software applications that collect, maintain, track and analyze the data and provide customized reporting of the location, status, and audit and maintenance history of each asset.
The Butler matrix feeds power to the elements with a progressive phase difference between elements such that the beam of radio transmission is in the desired direction.
In 2014, the company announced that it has to defer the recognition of revenues on orders due to the effects the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation has had on a distributor in Ukraine.
Blass, J., "Multidirectional antenna - a new approach to stacked beams", 1958 IRE International Convention Record, 1966.
The squadron is augmented by reserve personnel from the 19th Space Operations Squadron, part of the 310th Space Wing.
India has started taking initiatives for setting up traceability systems at Government and Corporate levels.
Rockwell Collins also manufactures a GPS receiver known as the "Polaris Guide", that looks like a DAGR, but uses only the civilian C/A code signals.
Figure 4a (first two plots) show a simulation of a pulse waveform recorded by receivers P 0 {\displaystyle P_{0}} and P 1 {\displaystyle P_{1}} .
Devices usually do not come with pre-installed GPS navigation software, thus, once purchased, the user must install or write their own software.
They charge a fixed value per kilometre distance, with several classes depending on vehicle type and regulated by the government.
Reference stations When initially deployed, StarFire used seven reference stations in the continental US.
The company has pricing policies that allow them to put mid range hardware on low end Prices, accompanied with Android OS.
TruConnect is an American mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) on T-Mobile and Verizon networks offering free phone service plans through Lifeline, as well as affordable prepaid mobile phone plans that include talk and text, 4G LTE/5G mobile data, and hotspot access.
Lei described the new strategy as a "life-or-death battle for our development" in his Weibo post, after Xiaomi's market share in China contracted over consecutive quarters, from 17% to 14% between Q2 and Q3 2021, dipping further to 13.2% as of Q4 2021.
iPassMe makes the world of mobile commerce accessible to all businesses with a broad range of software and hardware including iBeacons technology, to provide in-store mobile communication.
KPN lost control of the German Simyo operations in 2014 when it sold E-Plus to Telefonica, although it retained a financial investment in Telefónica Germany.
to base its products' Android distribution upon a variant of the popular custom ROM CyanogenMod and use its trademarks outside of China.
Voce (Italian for voice) was a premium Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) using the AT&T GSM network sold by Neiman-Marcus and created by Japanese company Faith Communications.
Founded in 2003, the company specialises in manufacturing mobile phones, smartphones to emerging markets under G'Five brand.
Carphone Warehouse purchased the UK ISP business of AOL in October 2006 for £370m and renamed it AOL Broadband.
Rolly keyboard In 2015, LG announced a Bluetooth keyboard that folds up along the four rows of keys for portability.
The Medium MVNO has the ability to set tariff bundles and packages independently from the retail prices set by the host network operator (MNO).
Following the Microsoft Ventures Accelerator, AppsFlyer raised Series A funding from Pitango and Magma partners.
After announcing his intention to defect from Telstra at the end of its contract, Telstra created a new company, BQ Communications, to compete against Crazy John's.
Adoption Despite intensive marketing attempts in the early 2000s LetterWise and WordWise were not widely adopted by cell phone manufacturers with the Multi-tap and T9 system holding the market.
In Spain, Simyo has been operating under the trade name of Simyo as an MVNO since January 29, 2008 through the Orange network.
These units are specifically aimed at households where mobile phones may only be owned by one or two family members and have also been utilized as community phones in centers.
2022 – Launches the Positivo Tech Services business unit to provide services and technical support for corporations throughout Brazil.
2020: "Security Technology Award Winner" for its SecurityPro product, from the Fierce Innovation Awards.
Original Features Kidoz initially offered a stand-alone Child Mode application for mobile devices, providing a controlled environment for children to safely navigate the World Wide Web.
The objective was to build an independent network from Sudan's with the most advanced Billing and VAS systems.
T-Mobile stated that these changes would help to reduce the negative stigmas associated with MetroPCS's prepaid services, by aligning them with other well-known brands as value-added services, and placing a larger emphasis on its use of T-Mobile's network.
In March 2014, Fiksu introduced two new indexes that measure costs on both iOS and Android – the Cost per Install Index and the Cost per App Launch Index.
Verizon is the 3G provider for Lively, and the network issues followed Verizon's retirement of its 3G mobile network.
But, the new product never hit the market, as on February 12, 2020, the company announced that it was ceasing operations because there was "no clear way to deliver ['Gem'] to customers".
The service launched in 2020 but stopped accepting new customers on 1 June 2023, and all services officially ceased on 15 December 2023.
Apache Cordova can be extended with native plug-ins, allowing developers to add more functionalities that can be called from JavaScript, making it communicate directly between the native layer and the HTML5 page.
Controversies On February 26, 2025, short seller firm Fuzzy Panda Research alleged AppLovin committed ad fraud and illegally tracked children and served them sexual ads.
TNT offers products tailored to meet consumer needs, with offerings designed to suit the lifestyles of its subscriber base.
Vernee was a brand of cellphones produced by the China based Shenzhen New-Bund Network Technology Co., Ltd.
Services Flurry Analytics Flurry Analytics enables users to analyze consumer behavior through data observations.
The name Crazy John's came about through people constantly telling Ilhan his marketing ideas were "crazy", and the name stuck.
As the team grew, the company evolved into a Cloud communication provider with services and products with aggregators and Telcos across the globe.
Contributors to the Apache Cordova project include Adobe, BlackBerry, Google, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Mozilla, and others.
Acquisitions and divestments AppLovin also has also invested in software development companies, and various mobile game publishers.
The company has factories in Ilhéus, Bahia and Manaus, Amazonas, and also has a presence in Argentina, Kenya, Rwanda, China and Taiwan.
Airship (software company), formerly Urban Airship, is a San Francisco, California-based company founded in Portland, Oregon, that offers mobile customer experience and messaging services.
Given repeated breaches of the code by Zamano, the tribunal imposed an increased fine of £40,000 == References ==
In addition to the standard version of WordWise Eatoni's website also notes they developed a more advanced version termed shift WordWise.
Besides the new camera, the C720t comes complete with full media powers (pictures, video, and music), as well as Bluetooth capabilities.
Tinno is among the list of brands that were found to have Adups applications pre-installed on their phones.
Nomad provides embedded SIM (eSIM) data services for international travelers and enterprise clients, with coverage in over 200 destinations worldwide.
In 2010, Promate established a fully-fledged branch office in Manila – Philippines to serve the South east Asia region.
Portable car navigation C7xx Series: C710, C720, C720t, C728 C5xx Series: C510, C510E, C520, C520t C3xx Series: C310, C310s, C310x, C310sx, C320 C2xx Series: C210, C210s, C220, C230, C250 The new range is the Mio Moov and the Mio Moov Spirit.
It includes features focusing on unifying cross-cutting concerns on a single platform to eliminate the repetition of work and to ensure frontend compatibility.
Individual SIMs are also available, capable of storing 450 phone numbers and 90 inbox text messages, and come with pre-loaded offers, pre-activated and ready to use when loading via prepaid card or outlet.
Crazy John's agreed to limit the amount of customer information it can use after its contract ended.
Metro conducts its operations on their physical store locations only, in contrast with other prepaid brands that offer services on physical locations and online.
In 2004, facing financial difficulties, Benefon entered bankruptcy protection and launched a re-organisation program.
Since 2000, Sharp heavily invested in LCD panel manufacturing plants: Kameyama in 2004, Sakai in 2009.
Controversy arose in January 2008, when many Voce clients were double billed on their last statements.
After the promised one year, BBK released their first student computer product "BBG Student Computer (Floppy No.1)"(BBG is the original English name of BBK).
Gizmodo went as far as to name TwitterPeek as one of the "50 Worst Gadgets of the Decade." In 2010, Peek 9's enhanced features were met by Engadget's reviewers as "dancing with a full list of features" and "Peek 9 is nine times faster than Pronto, adds PeekMaps, weather, Twitter, and Facebook".
This program provides these reduced-cost or free cell phone services to eligible households in most U.S.
Medio received $11 million more in 2006 to create a mobile analytics search engine capable of searching for ringtones, graphics, and internet-delivered information.
Products and services easySim.global offers prepaid eSIM data plans designed for both short-term and long-term travel.
In 2016, the Lively Wearable was recognized in The Wall Street Journal's "Best Of CES 2016: The Wondrous and Wacky Year Ahead in Gadgets".
In June 2015 a crowdfunding campaign was launched for the Saygus V² with the company citing manufacturing issues in delivering the finished product to pre-order customers.
This dual structure provides operational control and supports brand-safe advertising within mobile in-app environments across the company's network.
On March 19, 2019, Google announced that it would enter the video game market, launching a cloud gaming platform called Google Stadia.
This integrated system underpins the company's operational model and supports its role in delivering safe and effective digital advertising experiences globally.
Essential Products (marketed as Essential) was an American technology company and manufacturer founded on November 9, 2015, by Andy Rubin and based in Palo Alto.
In 2012, the company released the Jitterbug Touch, a keyboarded Android phone with a simplified user interface.
(As per their websites.) See also List of telephone_operating_companies List of mobile network operators of the Americas List of telecommunications regulatory bodies External links Caribbean Telecommunications Union
History The company was established in Palo Alto on November 9, 2015, by Android co-founder Andy Rubin, with funding from Playground Global.
Products Mobile Phones WIFI DUAL MODE Card N500DH EDGE Card N100E EDGE Card N775 UMTS Card N300U External links New Onda Website Phone Accessories Custom Phone Case
The company also generates a significant part of its revenue from the sales of IT and consumer electronics products under its own brands - Prestigio, Canyon, Perenio, AENO and Lorgar.
On June 21, 2015, the legacy MetroPCS CDMA network was decommissioned, and customers were migrated to the company's LTE network.
On 6 November, TalkTalk stated that the impact of the breach was "much more limited than initially suspected", adding that 156,959 customer accounts were involved, from which 15,656 sort codes and bank account numbers had been taken.
See also PhoneGap NativeScript Xamarin Flutter (software) References External links Official SDK webpage and documentation Official Slack support Official organization webpage
In 2013, TracFone began to open up its device pool with a 'bring your own device' program, selling SIM cards that could be inserted into qualifying non-TracFone phones (such as Verizon CDMA phones) to connect with the TracFone network.
Following the elimination of cell phone service, many Voce customers complained to Neiman Marcus requesting refunds or store credit.
Benefon's efforts to create a niche market in GPS telematics had met with some success (especially in commercial security markets) but had not been enough for the company to remain viable.
(First Trimester 2025) The country's telecom regulator is the CRC (Comisión de Regulación de Comunicaciones).
As of 2026 the companies include Oppo, OnePlus (which operates as a subsidiary of Oppo), Realme, Vivo and IQOO (which operates as a subsidiary of Vivo).
Holafly is a company that provides mobile internet connectivity services to tourists and international travelers.
History XCom Global was Established May 3, 2010 and started with two data plans: limited for over 130 countries and unlimited data plan for 21 countries.
Kidoz (TSX-V: KDOZ, OTCQB: KDOZF) is a Canadian technology company that operates an adtech platform specializing in mobile gamer engagement and privacy-compliant mobile advertising infrastructure.
The company is an MVNE (Mobile Virtual Network Enabler), providing mobile services to companies that want to control their own network.
OnePlus Nord 5 Released in July 8 ,2025, the OnePlus Nord 5 features a Qualcomm Snapdragon 8s Gen 3 chipset .The Nord 5 features a massive 6800mAh silicon carbide battery with 80 W SuperVOOC charging.
The company also unveiled a partnership with Chinese esport team Royal Never Give Up, to further expand its brand among esport enthusiasts.
As of August 2022, CloudSight has 15+ granted patents for its technology and has recognized over 1 billion images.
In 2026, the company was included as a Leader in Gartner's Magic Quadrant for Personalization Engines.
Neiman Marcus did not issue any such credits, but referred existing customers to preferred vendors to replace their service.
The promotion asked selected participants to destroy their phones on video to purchase the OnePlus One for $1 (US).
Airalo provides eSIM services compatible with mobile networks in most countries, and users can choose between eSIMs for a specific destination, for a region, and at a global level, with various data packages available, including unlimited data eSIMs.
In 1997, Gradiente established a joint venture with Finland-based telecommunications manufacturing firm Nokia, where they were granted the license to manufacture variants of Nokia mobile phones locally under the Nokia and Gradiente brand names.
Because of this the court granted an injunction against Samsung and ordered Samsung to cease infringement.
Wigdor and Balakrishnan indicated WordWise performs similarly to earlier techniques but with subtle advantages, though as with all predictive techniques the efficiency relied essentially upon the use of natural language with techniques such as abbreviations tending to nullify any advantage.
It comprises four business units: home entertainment, mobility, home appliances & air solutions, and business solutions.
Popular offers include: 30 GB of data for ₱399 25 GB with 100 minutes + 500 texts for ₱299 Users can convert data into call minutes or SMS using the app (“Mo Creds”).
In 2021, ASBIS achieved record-breaking financial results both in the fourth quarter and throughout the year.
G'Five International Limited (simplified Chinese: 基伍国际有限公司; traditional Chinese: 基伍國際有限公司; pinyin: Jīwu Guójì Yǒuxiàn Gōngsī) was a Chinese consumer electronics company headquartered in Shenzhen, Guangdong and registered in Hong Kong.
Also in 2018, LG decided to stop smartphone production in South Korea to move production to Vietnam, in order to stay competitive.
In 2007, Forbes magazine included Gresso Avantgarde phone in top 10 most expensive mobile phones in the world.
In 2013, RW3 released the BI Suite, a business intelligence environment that enables organizations to create views across departments and utilize multiple data sources to align sales strategies.
In a study carried out by UK telecoms regulator Ofcom in 2010, TalkTalk was found to have average speeds of 7.7-9.3 Mbit/sec, while it was advertised as "up to" 24 Mbit/sec.
Evertek produced several mobile phones (Dual and triple SIM) and is gaining progressive access to the Tunisian market.
Kroger Wireless LLC is an American mobile virtual network operator providing domestic telecommunications services via the T-Mobile Network.
Technology The 2008 Peek device was designed by Peek in partnership with IDEO and BYD, and its architecture is based on the Texas Instruments Locosto chipset with an ARM core.
Fortumo co-founder Rain Rannu explained the reasons for bringing in investors: "Working with Intel Capital and Greycroft will help us to pursue additional growth opportunities, including strategic partnerships and acquisitions".
Early in its history, KORE established connectivity partnerships with Rogers in Canada and AT&T in the U.S., providing LTE-M and other IoT services across both markets.
From then on, the computer and video game factory, telephone factory, and AV factory became completely independent companies with their own equity and personnel structures.
History In August 2000, Walt Disney Internet Group (WDIG) entered the mobile content market in Japan with an agreement with NTT DoCoMo to launch the Disney-i content service.
The phones available for purchase from Aio were seen as typical for a prepaid provider, ranging from $30 feature phones to $50 low-end smartphones to various iPhone models, both at reduced prices for refurbished handsets to $649.99 for the then-new iPhone 5, the standard unsubsidized price.
Simyo belongs to the Dutch telecommunications group KPN, after acquisition of the remainder of E-Plus on March 14.
Lifeline TruConnect is in partnership with a federal and state-funded Lifeline Program, overseen and managed by the FCC and USAC.
In order to reduce marketing costs, OnePlus relied instead on word of mouth and initially only allowed purchases via an invite system.
The company has been working with industry groups like BTG to get pilots off the ground with companies like SURFnet.
"Videocon became the first company to bring colour TVs in India," claims Anirudh Dhoot, the founder's grandson (Venugopal Dhoot's son) and Videocon's current director.
So far, the company has already launched Bharat 2 - which is considered one of India's cheapest 4G mobile phones.
History In September 2008, the original Peek email device was launched in the United States and was sold at the price of USD$99.00.
LG released its first GSM network phones during 2001 although had also marketed CDMA phones before then in the U.S.
The core network components featured the usual manufacturers in Cisco and Oracle, but also smaller specialist vendors like Blueslice and BroadForward.
Its Jitterbug Flip network experienced a network disruption at the start of 2023, with Best Buy stating that Jitterbug Flip2 phones, Jitterbug smartphones, and Lively-branded phones weren't impacted.
It started as a joint venture under the name InMo, partially owned by Infonet Corp which was acquired by BT.
It won't satisfy convergence-rabid smartphone fetishists, but for the rest of the world (i.e., the majority of it), this one-trick pony is a godsend.
2023 – Launches the PositivoSEG business unit, focused on automation and electronic security for the B2B market, as well as acquiring SecuriCenter, a distributor of technology solutions equipment for the automation and electronic security market.
Since 2019 the company has been virtually defunct and its headquarters building is to be sold in an auction.
NQ Mobile has also worked closely with Symbian, Windows Mobile and Android, developing mobile security applications based on those operating systems.
The device also features Dolby Audio multi-channel audio, noise cancellation, and utilizes a Qualcomm Snapdragon 615 processor, an Adreno 405 GPU, and a 3000 mAh battery.
AT&T decided to create Aio as a separate brand for those different, "value-conscious" customers targeted by Aio's offerings.
It uses a service option for a cellular phone network which permits subscribers to use their phone as a walkie-talkie with unlimited range.
Over the following twelve months, customers were migrated to one of the other three carriers based on their area codes.
(December 2016) Paraguay The country has 7.34 Million subscribers in total, or a 109% penetration rate.
Other mobile phone products included the Benefon Class that enabled cordless handset use, and the Benefon Smart, available in different colour options.
The company launched what it later called "the first mobile phone and a GPS navigator integrated in one product", the Benefon Esc!, in late 1999, followed by the Benefon Track in 2000.
Three Super Star first-place finishes at MobileVillage Mobile Star Awards in 2012 for Best SUCCESS STORIES: Mobile Marketing – McDonald's & SAMY; Best ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS: Marketing; Best CONSUMER APPS: Shopping or Sales.
Reception Mashable noted in 2009, "The Usefulness of Poll Everywhere is apparent." See also Audience Response Systems == References ==
Venugopal Dhoot, the promoter of Videocon had fraudulently transferred part of the loan received from ICICI Bank to the Kochhars' business entreprise after Chanda Kochhar, Sandeep Bakhshi became the full time managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank.
Voce has never provided an official statement to its customers regarding the status of its network, but all company phone numbers are disconnected and Voce has now taken down their website.
The acquisition was approved by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on November 22, 2021, and closed the following day.
Pine64 sells a "Clusterboard" with an inbuilt eight-port Gigabit Ethernet switch, which can be used to build a cluster system out of up to seven SOPINE modules.
Their third phone, the MV1, was announced in February 2016, and was released to Asian, African, Latin American and European markets in March 2016.
Applicants can also communicate directly with verified college students via the paid mentor messaging feature.
LocationSmart provides near real-time location data for devices including smartphones, feature phones, tablets, M2M, IoT and other connected devices on Tier 1 and Tier 2 wireless networks in the U.S.
In 2000, Telmex spun off its mobile unit, creating América Móvil, of which Topp Telecom became a subsidiary.
Helio's new $29 per month rate plan offered unlimited talk, text and data but at capped data speeds of 128 kilobits per second.
References External links GOMO Singapore GOMO Thailand GOMO Philippines GoMo Ireland GoMo Switzerland GoMo Cyprus
History The first collection of mobile phones was presented in 2006, with some made using gold and African blackwood.
The MVNOs combined market share was 15.9% of the total UK mobile market, representing 15.3 million connections.
The line includes five models: RoverPad Air G70, RoverPad Go G50, RoverPad Go G72, RoverPad TegA W70 and RoverPad 3WG70.
In April 2009, Peek launched their second device, the Peek Pronto, which supported Push email ('instant' delivery), Microsoft Exchange, increased support for email attachments (PDFs, DOC, and pictures), and unlimited texting support.
Virgin Mobile UK Virgin Mobile UK was a mobile virtual network operator, and a division of Virgin Media O2 (joint-owned by Liberty Global and Telefónica).
The company is backed by investors Charles River Ventures, Matrix Partners, Opus Capital, and Shasta Ventures.
Operation Promate operates in over 150 countries worldwide through offline distribution, retail and e-commerce channels.
History AppsFlyer is a privately held company co-founded in Israel in 2011 by Oren Kaniel, its current CEO, and Reshef Mann, company CTO.
The 8 and 8 Pro have a circular cutout in the upper left-hand corner of the display for the front-facing camera.
The mobile application is also available in the Google Play Store, and between the two platforms it has received a combined 31,000,000+ downloads as of 2022.
See also List of mobile phone makers by country References External links Solid Group official website my|phone Official Website
The product was released on 24 September 2008 at RadioShack to coincide with the season premiere of the new Knight Rider series.
Jordan Jordan's top watchdog issued its first MVNO regulations in 2008, facilitating the creation of the first MVNO in the Arab world in 2010.
Products The company's flagship phone was the TM-5200, which was installed with the Yandex Opera Mini and Yandex Opera Mobile web browsers.
In October 2019, CleverTap announced its Series C investment of US$35 million led by previous funders, bringing the total investment to just over US$77 million.
The company was deregistered on 7 April 2023 as it split its component brands off into separate companies or brands.
In 2008, Promate became an Apple MFi Certified brand with a dedicated R&D and Design center in Shenzhen-China.
"Keeping customer coming round is idea behind iLoop." http://www.bizjournals.com/sanjose/print-edition/2011/04/08/keeping-customers-coming-round-iLoop.html.
The feature allows parents to take screenshots of the kid's screen when they are browsing certain apps.
Crazy John's applied for an injunction in the Federal Court in Melbourne to prevent Telstra from going ahead with this second demand.
In 2020, BBK Electronics represented by Oppo, announced its involvement in independent research and development of chips.
Continuing Lau's association with the platform from the Oppo N1, OnePlus entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Cyanogen Inc.
The six MVNOs are: iTel (Indochina Telecom), Wintel (Mobicast/Masan Group), myLocal (ASIM Telecom), VNSKY (VNPAY), FPT SIM (FPT Retail), and SkyX (Leeon Group).
The operation was originally started in 1988 as mobile phone manufacturer Benefon who began research on GPS safety phones in 1995 and launched the first commercial GPS/GSM safety phone, the Benefon Track, in 2000.
While the origins of most of the phones listed below are unknown, they are believed to be produced by CECT.
Telstra, on the other hand, began threatening to not renew the exclusive reseller agreement it had with Crazy John's when it ended on 1 July 2007, if didn't agree to new terms that included less commission per customer.
Production and design The mobile phones also include pre-installed applications and features designed by Filipino software developers.
The eight countries with the largest number of active MVNOs in 2018 were: the US with 139 MVNOs (4.7% market share), Germany with 135 (19.5% market share), Japan 83 (10.6%), UK 77 (15.9%), Australia 66 (13.1%), Spain 63 (11.5%), France 53 (11.2%) and Denmark 49 (34.6%).
LetterWise uses the probability of letters occurring in a particular sequence to achieve performance.
HomeChat employs LINE, the mobile messenger app from Korean company 'Naver', to let homeowners communicate, control, monitor and share content with LG's smart appliances.
On 20 April 2022, Oi’s mobile network operations were sold to the country's three largest carriers, Vivo, Claro and TIM.
The company was also praised for its public support for a clean energy policy, after advocating the Japanese Government to increase the use of renewable energy.
Retailers including Walmart, Dollar General and Family Dollar, food delivery services including Instacart, and convenience stores including Shell are all part of the Ibotta Performance Network.
The Star64 is Pine64's first RISC-V SBC, based on the StarFive JH7110 SoC, launched in September 2022.
A technical plan was also prepared to ensure the continuity of the service even when using the new numbers.
2015 – Launches the Quantum smartphone brand and obtains a license to produce and sell VAIO notebooks in Brazil.
Huawei should not seek to enforce those orders until I have the ability to determine the breach of contract claim it chose to present in this action prior to filing the Chinese actions” Scott Graham use the headline “Judge Blocks Huawei's Chinese Injunctions Against Samsung”.
In November 2013 an opinion piece on the stock market analysis website Seeking Alpha claimed that MEDL Mobile was making elaborate claims through press releases as a part of a pump and dump scheme with its company stock.
Although they share the same name and digital-only business model, GoMo services are operated independently under different parent companies in various countries.
ASPIDER is traditionally known as a Mobile Virtual Network Enabler (MVNE), delivering services to a variety of operators and MVNOs and MNOs (Postmobile, Vodafone and T-Mobile).
See also List of mobile network operators of the Americas References External links Official website
(Sudatel) and several other shareholders including Celtel, until 2006 when it was fully acquired by the Mobile Telecommunications Company (MTC) as part of its strategy; to transform from a local to a regional, then a global telecom entity.
Smartface App Studio Smartface App Studio is now deprecated and replaced with the Cloud IDE offered in Smartface Cloud.
For example, the Unlitxt Extra 30 provides subscribers with free texts to TNT/Smart numbers for three days, along with 15 minutes of calls to TNT/Smart.
2007 – Reaches leadership in the national computer market with the sale of 1.389 million PCs, a number that places it in the select group of the ten largest desktop manufacturers in the world.
Compared to the Nord, it has a 6.49-inch display of the same resolution at 90 Hz, however it is an LCD rather than an AMOLED.
The brand gained recognition with releases such as the Liberty Air 2 Pro earbuds with active noise cancellation and the Liberty 3 Pro released later in 2021.
It operates from 64 bases in 30 countries and its products are distributed in 164 countries worldwide.
In March 2010, the company introduced its first collection of Gresso Grand Monaco phones for women, with some phones made entirely from crocodile leather.
Early versions of PhoneGap required an Apple computer to create iOS apps and a Windows computer to create Windows Mobile apps.
In 2015, Nazara obtained the license from Green Gold Animations to create mobile games based on Chhota Bheem animated television series.
In August 2007, the company introduced two models of luxury Avantgarde smartphones: Luna and Sol based on Windows Mobile 6.0 Standard operation system and Gresso interface.
The company responded by stating that the exposed data consisted primarily of error logs and incorrect login attempts.
Kroger Wireless invites customers to purchase phones at select Kroger store locations, via their website, or by bringing their eligible Sprint device for activation.
In November 2011, after the market was open as required by DR-CAFTA, Claro and Movistar started service.
In July 2009, Charles Dunstone, CEO of TalkTalk Group announced that TalkTalk had withdrawn plans to introduce Phorm, along with a similar announcement from BT in the same week.
Aio initially launched in the southern US cities of Houston, Orlando, and Tampa, and with small variance in the data tiers offered in each city.
Customers can also choose from a number of value-added services related to the team, some of which are free.
In 2012, CERN selected the xTCA Test Tools developed by Polaris Networks for the internal testing of their xTCA systems, including those of the Large Hadron Collider.
1382, Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court On 4 January 2018, the Shenzhen Intermediate People's Court issued a judgment which was not made available to the public due to confidentiality to the parties.
It was used until 2011, when LG Electronics retired the Cyon brand and all new mobile phones were rebranded as LG.
Sensors on board include an accelerometer, ambient light sensor, e-compass, gyroscope, proximity sensor, temperature sensor.
The Apple Watch Ultra 2 was unveiled on September 22, 2023, alongside the Apple Watch Series 9; alongside the updated hardware inherited from Series 9, its screen brightness was further increased to 3000 nits.
Prior to watchOS 3, "Glances" offered quick access to summaries of the most frequently used native and third-party applications.
It is available in Space Gray, Silver, Gold, Blue, and Product Red aluminum case color options, available in Graphite, Silver, and Gold stainless steel case color options.
The watch sends SDP queries to the phone (once every few seconds on the setup screen and once every time it turns its screen on after having been configured) until it sees that UUID, then connects to the RFCOMM port associated with it.
On April 15, 2015, the Microsoft Band was released in the UK priced at £169.99 and available for purchase through the Microsoft Store, or from select partners.
United States International Trade Commission bans may be vetoed by the President of the United States, or by the United States Trade Representative within sixty days of a ruling; vetoes are rare.
Apple advanced the version number to 26 as part of a shift to a year-based versioning convention across its operating systems.
Editing Photos includes robust editing functions that are utilized with simple controls, such as a one-click auto-enhance button.
Additional sensors integrated into the Apple Watch include an accelerometer, gyroscope, and barometer, which are used to determine device orientation, user movement, and altitude.
Specifications Design The Pixel Watch sports a round watch face with a domed design, physical crown, and watch frame made of recycled stainless steel attached to custom-designed bands.
In high power mode it can reproduce colour images with an 18-bit colour depth (OS limited to 16-bit).
The deal, confirmed on March 12, 2025, encompassed Niantic's flagship titles (Pokémon Go, Pikmin Bloom, and Monster Hunter Now) and companion apps Campfire and Wayfarer, while augmented reality games Ingress and Peridot were retained by the spun-off entity Niantic Spatial.
Shortly after the release of the Galaxy Gear, Samsung began rolling out Android 4.3 updates for its other recent devices, such as the Galaxy S III, S4 and Note II, to ensure Galaxy Gear compatibility.
Sixth generation (Series 6) The Apple Watch Series 6 was announced on September 15, 2020, during an Apple Special Event and began shipping on September 18.
Its principal improvements over its predecessor were the addition of a compass and an always-on display with a low-power display driver capable of refresh rates as low as once per second.
The microphone was moved to the opposite side between the side button and the digital crown to improve call quality.
The Galaxy Watch was scheduled for availability in the United States starting on August 24, 2018, at select carriers and retail locations in South Korea on August 31, 2018, and in additional select markets on September 14, 2018.
The motto for the AsteroidOS project is "Free your wrist." Wareable.com reviewed version 1.0 and gave it 3.5 out of 5 stars.
Specifications For a time, they were considerably higher-spec than competing products from larger, well-known manufacturers in that they run a fully featured version of Android 4.0.3 and can run apps without the assistance of another connected smartphone or tablet.
The display allows for an additional line of text, enhancing the visibility of messages, mail, and news.
A multipath heart rate sensor boasts more accurate readings; a skin temperature sensor tracks sleep but not menstruation; while an electrodermal activity sensor detects sweat beads to assess the wearer's mood.
It has the largest display Apple has built for a wearable device, including the Apple Watch Ultra, with up to 30% more screen area.
Pandora stated that it was able to make this change "thanks to the rapid progress of its mobile advertising." In 2014, Pandora signed an agreement with some music copyright owners for lower royalties in exchange for more frequent streaming of songs.
TizenRT In December 2016, Samsung created TizenRT, a fork of NuttX, a real-time operating system (RTOS), for smart home appliances and IoT devices.
Martian Watches allow for hands-free use of mobile phones via short-distance wireless communication.
Other finish options include rose gold and silver aluminum, which are up to 10% lighter than previous models.
It was conceptualized by Manuel Zanella and Massimiliano Bertolini in early 2011, with funding provided by H-Invest and then released in the middle of 2012.
They will be issuing another update to Kickstarter backers in about 30 days, when they decide what they will do to repay their debts and issue refunds to their backers.
On February 21, 2016, Samsung announced Samsung Connect Auto, a connected car solution offering diagnostic, Wi-Fi, and other car-connected services.
It is based on the Galaxy Watch 4, with the only physical difference being the use of sapphire crystal as glass instead of the Corning Gorilla Glass DX+ used on the original Watch 4.
Models The first-generation Apple Watch Ultra was unveiled September 7, 2022 alongside Apple Watch Series 8, and began shipping September 23, 2022.
Groupon also announced that it would continue to operate Savored independently from the main Groupon website.
Evan Dashevsky of PC Magazine said it offered nothing new in terms of functionality compared to the Moto 360, except the customizable vibration notifications.
In March 2025, Google expanded health and wellness tools with the introduction of Auto-Bedtime Mode, initially launched on the Pixel Watch 3 and later rolled out to older models like the Pixel Watch 2.
Like other Palm OS devices, they synchronize or exchange information with a PC, have an infrared port, a virtual keyboard, and a touch screen.
Web & mobile services In 2010, The Weather Network launched the WeatherEye application for mobile and PC devices.
Google's executive chairman and former chief, Eric Schmidt, conceded that Siri could pose a competitive threat to the company's core search business.
The watch communicates with its companion Android phone or iPhone using Bluetooth v4.1LE, and has 2.4 GHz 802.11b/g/n WiFi for synchronizing Google Services data.
It was later also available in Australia through the Sydney flagship store, Microsoft online store, and selected retailers such as JB Hi-Fi and Harvey Norman.
Other ways of sharing includes e-mail, social platform that integrates through iOS Extensions, or Apple's peer-to-peer AirDrop technology.
Remote Raid Battles have since been fully integrated: as of May 13, 2025, trainers may use up to 10 Remote Raid Passes per day to join Shadow Raids and Max Battles from anywhere, and bundles of passes are now available in the Pokémon Go Web Store.
In need of a digital signal processing specialist, the founding team then hired Avery Wang, who had received his PhD from Stanford University.
IGTV allows uploads of up to 10 minutes in length with a file size of up to 650 MB, with verified and popular users allowed to upload videos of up to one hour in length with a file size of up to 5.4 GB.
Manufacturers could also add their own features to SPOT-based devices; as an example, a manufacturer could create its own smartwatch channel in order to distinguish its product from a competitor's product.
Swarm In May 2014, Foursquare launched Swarm, a companion app to Foursquare City Guide, which moved the social networking and location-sharing aspects of the service to a separate application.
MyFitnessPal can be used to accurately track the macronutrient content of all foods as well as the user's total carbohydrate, fat and protein intake.
The company has been rebranded as General Magic in 2018 and then again rebranded in 2022 to the current name, Magic Lane Limited, in part as a continuation of the Magic Earth brand as well as a reference to the founder and CTO Johan Lanen.
In February 2002, eBay acquired iBazar, a French online auction site founded in 1998, for approximately $112 million in stock.
Display It has an LG 1.54-inch 240 × 240 pixel color IPS TFT display and a multi point touch panel covered with sapphire glass coating.
It introduced an instant watch-to-watch walkie-talkie mode, an all-new Podcasts app, raise-wrist-to-speak Siri, a customizable Control Center, and the ability to access the notification center and control center from apps.
Unlike classified advertising, the merchants advertising on Groupon do not pay any upfront cost to participate: Consumers are able to search and browse deals via web or mobile and can subscribe to receive emails featuring deals they are interested in based on preferences they input.
In an interview with The Korea Times published on August 27, 2013, Lee Young-hee stated that the Galaxy Gear would "enhance and enrich the current smart mobile experience in many ways", would "lead a new trend in smart mobile communications", and "add meaningful momentum to the mobile industry.
An engineering firm in Arizona called Three-Five Systems was able to deliver the display in July 2002.
Shazam works by analyzing the captured sound and seeking a match based on an acoustic fingerprint in a database of millions of songs.
The watch can have other features and capabilities depending on its intended purpose and be a smartwatch.
The Samsung Gear S2 is a smartwatch developed by Samsung Electronics running Samsung's Tizen operating system.
In 2010, TAG Heuer introduced the "Pendulum Concept", the first magnetic oscillator without hairspring capable of providing restoring torque comparable to that of hairspring.
History It has reportedly been in development since 2018, the operating system core is written with the Rust programming language, which is open source, released on November 1, 2023, via 2023 Vivo Developer Conference.
Apple Music Awards Production library Series Feature films Reception Apple Music received mixed reviews at launch.
Other environmental groups criticized Apple's emphasis on carbon emissions without accounting for e-waste, due to the difficulty of repairing these products.
Foursquare has since updated both its privacy policy and cookies policy to detail how location data is used in new features and products.
It has a Super AMOLED display with a resolution of 360 x 360 pixels and a screen size of 1.2 inches.
Overview Shazam identifies songs using an audio fingerprint based on a time-frequency graph called a spectrogram.
Music (also known as Apple Music, the Apple Music app, and the Music app) is a media player application developed for the iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, visionOS, tvOS, Android, and Windows operating systems by Apple.
The compromised data consisted of usernames, e-mail addresses, and hashed passwords, but not credit card numbers or government identifiers (social security numbers, national identification numbers).
Following a ruling by the International Trade Commission on a lawsuit regarding the blood oxygen monitoring feature, Apple temporarily stopped selling Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2 on December 21, 2023, ahead of an import ban going into effect on December 26, 2023.
The Wrist PDA features 8 MB of memory, four times the memory in the onHand, although a major disadvantage of the Fossil device was volatile memory - if the battery died, data was lost.
With this release, Apple drops support for the Apple Watch Series 4, Apple Watch Series 5 and Apple Watch SE (1st generation).
The second generation of MetaWatch had Bluetooth 4.0, a KXTI9 accelerometer instead of KXTF9 (using less active power), and larger battery.
Time's Tim Bajarin summarized the breadth of reactions, writing that "there is not enough information yet to determine how this product will fare when it finally reaches the market next year".
Ive pointed out that one of the primary apps that shipped with the first watchOS allowed users to track and communicate as well as encourage them to move, exercise, and stand.
Prior to watchOS 7, different actions and options appeared depending on whether the user taps or deep-presses, detected with the pressure-sensitive (Force Touch) Display.
It enables the wearer to attach additional equipment to the watch, including sensors, batteries, and miscellaneous.
It was the first Apple Watch model to add the new Natural and Space Black titanium case color options.
The Apple Watch Series 7 is now available in Midnight, Starlight, Blue, Green, and Product Red aluminum case color options, available in Graphite, Silver, and Gold (introduced with the Apple Watch Series 6 and the iPhone 12 Pro in 2020) stainless steel case color options.
As it was a limited edition product, only a limited number were released in Europe and a few other countries.
The app was later expanded to include questionnaires and surveys on energy conservation and financial literacy.
The latest criticism on the Meteor is the recent delay in shipping due to an echoing issue that was discovered in a recent test.
Originally released as an Android-based device, Samsung replaced the operating system with Tizen through the May 2014 software update.
Fullpower created and managed the circuit design, firmware, smartphone applications (including sleep activity), as well as the cloud Infrastructure.
The Apple Watch Edition Series 3 is the first and only Apple Watch model to add the new Gray ceramic case color option.
Snap asks shoppers to upload photos of their receipts after they have gone to the supermarket to buy groceries.
As of July 2014, the Gear Live was also available in Australia, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Spain.
LiteOS variants of kernels has since been incorporated currently into the IoT-oriented open source OpenHarmony kernel agnostic platform and classic HarmonyOS 4.x and earlier versions.
It synced with Android 4.0+ smartphones, allowing users to scan through texts, emails, phone calls, and other notifications.
Within 27 hours, the campaign had reached its funding goal of $100,000, and ultimately went on to raise more than $800,000 in 30 days, becoming the highest-funded Canadian Kickstarter campaign at the time.
It replaces the Breathe app with a new Mindfulness app, and adds a Focus mode as well as a Portrait Watch Face, updates to the Messages and Home apps, Contacts and Find My apps, and a redesigned Photos app.
Overview The workouts app displays a list of activities and exercises for a user to begin recording, although the watch is also capable of detecting when a workout session begins on its own and notifying a user to start a workout.
By September 30, it had received 500 million downloads and grossed $470 million in 80 days, according to market research firm Newzoo.
The /e/ Operating System, which aims to be a privacy-focused alternative to Android, uses Magic Earth as the default navigation application, with the explanation that Magic Lane provided the /e/OS developers sufficient documentation about privacy behavior to include the application in the OS.
Samsung announced as part of the move to move from Tizen OS to Wear OS by Google starting from August 2022.
Other metrics can vary depending on the type of activity, such as displaying the total altitude of a cycling workout or the total laps of a swimming program.
Siri can speak through the onboard speaker on Apple Watch Series 3 due to the increased processing speed of the Watch.
Groupon bought the Indian deal-of-the-day website SoSasta.com in January 2011 and re-branded it as "Crazeal by Groupon Inc." The Groupon acquisitions of uBuyiBuy launched services under the Groupon name in Hong Kong.
For other regions "WeatherWATCH" provide a detailed analysis of the current weather across Canada, including the weather expected nationwide over the next three days.
Apple announced at the 2019 Worldwide Developers Conference that iTunes would be replaced with the specific Music app, Podcasts, and TV applications with the release of macOS Catalina.
"Sport watch" functionality often includes activity tracker features, as included on GPS watches made for training, diving, and outdoor sports.
The 1st generation was first announced on February 20, 2019, alongside the Galaxy S10 series, the Galaxy Fold, the Galaxy Watch Active and the Galaxy Buds 1st generation at the Samsung's Galaxy Unpacked event, and released in June 14, 2019, as the successor to the Gear Fit 2 Pro.
Two models of the Gear 2 were released, the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo; the Gear 2 has a steel exterior and includes a camera, while the Gear 2 Neo is made from plastic and excludes the camera.
Following the MB-910 showing at the Mobile World Congress 2009 show, a UK release is planned for Q2, priced SIM-free at around £200.
Enhancements in the Series 8, relative to the prior-generation Series 7 watch, include a new temperature sensor and more precise accelerometers, and Crash Detection.
Founder and operator Arment was also the Chief Technology Officer of Tumblr and founder of Instapaper before founding Overcast, and he had created his own podcasts before launching the app.
Phone calls can also be answered and placed from the watch (the dialer is launched by swiping up on the clock display), while the "Find My Device" tool can be used to locate the watch with a phone or tablet, or vice versa.
References External links Official Motorola MOTOACTV Product Page Archived 2012-01-19 at the Wayback Machine CMW's initial announcement of booter patch Archived 2012-01-19 at the Wayback Machine
On October 30, 2020, Under Armour announced that MyFitnessPal would be sold to the private equity firm Francisco Partners for $345 million and that it was shutting down Endomondo.
Magic Earth works on Android and iOS devices and supports Android Auto, Apple CarPlay and Apple Watch integration.
Shazam is a British application that can identify music based on a short sample played using the microphone on the device.
The carbon offsets used by Apple follow standards set by Verra, the Climate, Community & Biodiversity Alliance, and the Forest Stewardship Council.
The TrueSmart ecosystem includes basic Android applications: Settings / Phone / Email / Messaging / Contact / File Manager / Camera / Gallery and several third parties apps which are available in Omate own application store called the Ostore.
The watch has nine axis movement sensors (gyro, accelerometer, compass), barometer, and a heart rate sensor.
As they scroll further, automatically generated collections appear, organized thematically by people, pets, locations, or events.
The charger has changed for the third time in the Pixel Watch series, as this model now offers a side-mounted dock, as opposed to the pin-based charging connector of the Pixel Watch 2 and 3.
Some backers had to pay large sums of money to get the device out of customs in some countries The charger cable was changed to a charging cradle that has a more robust connection, but doesn't allow pressing the buttons while charging, such as to snooze or disable an alarm.
Application platforms iOS, tvOS, watchOS and visionOS versions A standalone Apple Podcasts app was announced at the 2012 Worldwide Developers Conference as a feature of iOS 6.
In the United Kingdom, a Product Security and Telecoms Infrastructure Act was passed in December 2022, effective from 2024.
The oldest iPhone model that is compatible with any given Apple Watch depends on the version of the operating system installed on each device.
Digital rights groups such as 7amleh and Access Now argue that the removal of Palestinian content reflects broader issues of digital discrimination and have called for greater transparency from social media platforms.
The Galaxy Watch Active was scheduled for availability in the United States starting on March 8, 2019.
One notable feature is that the bezel ring rotates as part of the user interface, although users can also navigate by swiping the screen and/or using the two buttons on the side.
It is compatible with Android smartphones running Android 11.0 or above, and is accompanied by a Pixel Watch mobile app available for download on the Google Play Store.
The LG Watch Urbane runs Android Wear and is equipped with a Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 SoC, 512MB of LPDDR2 RAM, and 4GB of eMMC storage.
Following the acquisition, Pebble's offices were closed and Fitbit held control over the use of the Pebble brand.
They were announced on July 10, 2024, at Samsung's biannual Galaxy Unpacked event, in Paris, France, alongside the Galaxy Z Fold 6, the Galaxy Z Flip 6, the Galaxy Buds 3 series and the Galaxy Ring.
The overall shape and width of the watch have not changed significantly since its release, so customizable bands and accessories are typically compatible with any Apple Watch of the same size class.
In June 2021, Masimo expanded its lawsuit to encompass the Apple Watch Series 6, filing a complaint to the International Trade Commission to state that the Series 6 infringes five patents for Masimo's light-based pulse oximeters.
As of January 2022, Infinitime version 1.8's additional features include secure Bluetooth pairing, customisable watch faces, a flashlight, basic paint program, stopwatch, alarm clock, countdown timer, step counter, heart rate monitor, a one-player pong clone, a numerical puzzle game and a metronome.
As of February 2015, the PebbleKit SDK included APIs to access bluetooth messaging, background workers, the accelerometer, the compass, and supported C and JavaScript (with some limitations) for developing apps.
The device started shipping in August 2014, and eventually became widely available through Best Buy and Amazon.
TechRadar gave it a score of 4.5/5, calling it one of the top smartwatches, while criticizing the short battery life.
The second-generation Apple Watch SE is available in Midnight, Silver, and Starlight case color options.
In April 2008, eBay sued Craigslist, claiming that in January 2008, Craigslist took actions that "unfairly diluted eBay's economic interest by more than 10%", causing eBay to lose its seat on the board of directors of Craigslist.
Other brand ambassadors in the "Universes" program include David Guetta, OneRepublic, Martin Garrix, Cara Delevingne, Chris Hemsworth, Manchester United F.C.
The line features various health, fitness, and fashion related features and is integrated with Samsung's other products under the Samsung Galaxy brand.
All workout history and deeper workout metrics can be viewed from within the Fitness and Health apps on a connected iPhone.
The ZYPAD is a PDA designed to be worn on a user's wrist like a bracer and offers interface port features similar to laptop computer.
Introduced in September 2022, they are marketed towards endurance athletes and outdoor recreation, and carry a rugged form factor with a wider band, a larger, brighter display, multi-band GPS, a larger battery, water temperature sensor, and additional functionality for diving.
Other products In 2011, SilverPlus launched a home communication safety system for seniors called the SilverCare Personal Safety Alert Device that included a two-way voice communication watch/pendant and a base station connected to a home telephone line.
These limitations surrounding notifications were addressed in the Galaxy Gear's first firmware update, which allows all apps to display notifications with previews on the Galaxy Gear.
In October 2015, Drake and Apple signed a deal to release the music video for "Hotline Bling" exclusively on Apple Music.
In November 2013, Reuters reported that company sources claimed that 800,000 Galaxy Gears were sold worldwide; however, the Korean news agency Yonhap disputed the report, believing that the numbers actually referred to units shipped and not units sold.
Unlike "buy 9 and get the 10th free" punchcards, a consumer earns Rewards by using any major credit card saved in their Groupon account when they visit their favourite local merchants.
On August 24, 2015, Best Buy announced that it would begin stocking the Apple Watch at its retail stores by the end of September.
AsteroidOS offers Bluetooth Low Energy synchronization capabilities with the asteroid-btsyncd daemon running on top of BlueZ5.
The watch comes with a redesigned charging cable that, like its predecessor's cable, magnetically attaches itself to the watch in order to maintain its water resistance.
The Active 2 was released in two sizes, 40 mm or 44 mm, and two connectivity formats, either Bluetooth or LTE capability.
During WWDC on June 22, 2020, Apple announced that the UK, Ireland, and Canada would be the first countries outside of the U.S.
After the article was published, Samsung, whom Neiderman tried to contact months before, reached out to him to resolve the issues.
It was released along with the LG G Watch as launch devices for Android Wear, a modified version of Android designed specifically for smartwatches and other wearables.
watchOS 6 Apple announced a new version of watchOS that would contain features such as the App Store, a calculator with tip tools, an audiobooks app, noise level monitoring, and Apple's Voice Memos app, at WWDC 2019 held on June 3, 2019.
Depending on the region where the device was sold from (thus depending on the CSC code), the language and region options may differ.
In 2017, Discover Pods gave an endorsement citing the "smart speed" feature, which shortens quiet gaps in a podcast.
The release of the Series 5 also brought back the "Edition" model, with a ceramic model absent from the previous generation.
The watch is equipped with a built-in heart rate sensor, which uses both infrared and visible-light LEDs and photodiodes.
Due to the form factor of the device being significantly different from the majority of Android devices, many of the default Android UI elements are unwieldy on the WIMM.
They connect to Android smartphones and can display information such as Twitter feeds and SMS messages, among other things.
You don't check in." Selvadurai also stated that Foursquare does not passively track users, which means a user has to actively check in to let people know where they are.
The previous structure with separate tabs such as “Library,” “Albums,” and “For You” was replaced by a unified, scrollable view.
History The idea that would eventually become Groupon was born out of founder Andrew Mason's frustration trying to cancel a mobile phone contract in 2006.
The blood oxygen monitor added red LEDs to the back, allowing the watch to determine oxygen levels by measuring blood color.
The fitness features have been expanded to include tracking for kayakers, canoers, and rowers, along with a Tides app and new depth and water temperature sensors.
Development Apple design chief Jony Ive became interested in building a watch shortly after Steve Jobs' death in October 2011.
Succeeding from the Apple S9, the Apple S10 is the second time utilizing the energy-efficient Sawtooth cores from the A16 Bionic.
BlueOS aims to run on various devices, including devices that has low as 32 MB of RAM that targets a wide range of devices, from smart home appliances and wearables.
Apart from their external appearance, and the fact that the sport edition is water-resistant to 100 metres, while the dress edition is water resistant to 30 metres, the two models had identical specifications.
The LG-GD910 is compatible with 7.2 Mbit/s 3G HSDPA, which enables the high speed data transmission required to make video calls using the in-built camera.
While praising its ability to "decipher our casual language" and deliver "very specific and accurate result," sometimes even providing additional information, Cheng noted and criticized its restrictions, particularly when the language moved away from "stiffer commands" into more human interactions.
LTE and 5G-equipped models can also perform these functions over a mobile network, and can make and receive phone calls independently when the paired iPhone is not nearby or is powered off.
Typically, a watch app can request permission to collect and store personally identifiable information, and apps can be rendered unusable if permission is denied.
Version history Android Wear Wear OS Wear OS 1 and 2 Wear OS 3 and later See also List of Wear OS devices Android Android Auto Android TV AsteroidOS Google Glass watchOS Facer.io Notes References External links Official website Wear OS apps on Google Play
Overview The watch features a rotating bezel user interface and an IP68 rating for water resistance up to 1.5 meters deep in 30 minutes.
The Band was initially sold exclusively on the Microsoft Store's website and retail locations; due to its unexpected popularity, it sold out on the first day it was released and was in short supply over the 2014 holiday shopping season.
Additional features include a new Apple S6 utilizing the energy-efficient Thunder cores from the A13 Bionic that is up to 20% faster than the Apple S4 and Apple S5, a 2.5× brighter always-on display, and an always-on altimeter.
Music, TV shows and movies, and podcasts on the iTunes Store will be accessible through the Music, TV, and Podcasts apps, respectively, compared to the standalone iTunes Store app that is featured on iOS.
The Apple Watch Series 11 additionally added the Space Gray color option, in addition to the existing Jet Black, Rose Gold, and Silver color options that were introduced with the Apple Watch Series 10.
It was announced on August 28, 2014, as the successor to the Samsung Gear 2 and was released on November 7, 2014.
Update (May 23, 2018): Martian issued a statement to Kickstarter backers saying that after shipping the first batch of about 480 watches, they lack the funding to continue.
21), representing the most successful four days ever in the company's six-year history, with sales up more than 25% year over year.
Sony Ericsson teamed up with Fossil and released the first watch, MBW-100, that connected to Bluetooth.
This feature was replaced by additional options in the Settings app and extended press gestures to accommodate all necessary interactions, making it more consistent with other Apple devices that do not support Force Touch.
Video Initially a purely photo-sharing service, Instagram incorporated 15-second video sharing in June 2013.
The Pixel Watch 3 is a Wear OS-based smartwatch designed, developed, and marketed by Google as part of the Google Pixel product line.
Android Wear features a notification system based on Google Now technology that enables it to receive spoken commands from the user.
Bengier, opening on NASDAQ at a price of $18 per share and closing on its first day at $53 per share.
In September 2015, Propay and Skrill were eliminated as payment methods on the eBay website, citing low usage.
The products in this set also have roughly the same specs but differ in names, case designs and camera placements.
Particularly when [you] don't understand just where we are today in terms of technology and capability, but where we are headed.Applications have been developed for watchOS that not only keep users active but also diagnose illnesses.
Its main backer, Intel, joined Samsung Electronics, Access Co., NEC Casio, NTT DoCoMo, Panasonic Mobile, SK Telecom, Telefónica, and Vodafone as commercial partners.
At the end of April came another delay, at not fault of Kreyos, which moved the delivery date back to the end of May.
Version history At WWDC 2015, Tim Cook announced watchOS 2; described by CNET as a "significant revamp", it included a new software development kit that allows more direct access to the device's hardware, new watch faces, the ability to reply to an e-mail, and other features.
Unlike more recent technologies, SPOT did not use more traditional forms of connectivity, such as 3G or Wi-Fi, but relied on FM broadcasting subcarrier transmission as a method of data distribution.
Kickstarter campaign Martian successfully launched their wireless smartphone-connected watches via the Kickstarter crowd funding platform on August 16, 2012, and the first watches were delivered to customers in early February 2013.
It is the first Samsung watch to run Google's Wear OS since the Gear Live, and the first watch to run Wear OS 3, co-developed by Samsung and Google.
The move garnered severe criticism from users, prompting Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom to write a blog post one day later, announcing that they would "remove" the offending language from the policy.
"Pandora's pitch to advertisers is that its technology can cater to consumers with far greater precision than radio – it can pinpoint listeners by age and sex, ZIP code or even musical taste." Methods of advertising There are a few different methods of advertising on Pandora.
The Samsung Gear Fit is a fitness wristband made by Samsung Electronics, and forms part of their Samsung Gear family of smartwatch devices.
Thus, watchOS apps must be bundled within their respective iOS app, and are synced to the watch either manually, or automatically upon installation of the phone app.
Martian Watches was a brand of smart watch founded in 2007 in the United States by SilverPlus, Inc., an American company headquartered in Irvine, California.
Products Insteon initially produced over 200 products using its technology, including LED bulbs, wall switches, wall keypads, sensors, plug in modules and embedded devices, along with central controllers for system management.
When using the Apple Watch, some users have reported issues using the heart monitoring feature due to permanent skin conditions, including tattoos.
As of May 2023, the most streamed song of all time on Apple Music is "Shape of You" by Ed Sheeran with more than 930 million plays worldwide.
History During the pandemic Shad development was delayed, and it was replaced by online TV teachers, but it has so many problems.
Huawei AppGallery — commonly reported HMS / AppGallery figures (220k+ HMS apps; ~580M MAU) are from Huawei / industry reporting in 2022; Huawei's HarmonyOS native app totals (HarmonyOS NEXT) and developer counts have been advanced in Huawei's 2024–2025 messaging (see Harmony Developers report).
Services ANGEL Learning also offers services such as training, implementation, integration, and application hosting.
A year later it was redesigned to "catalyze a big increase in traffic, across downloads, users, and total number of apps".
Some have also worried that SUP's purchase of the community was less to make a profit and more to curtail or even dissolve the strong independent Russian blogging community, silencing dissent the government found inconvenient.
Service BlueLine Grid provides a specialized messenger application that connects public employees and their partners.
As of December 2019, the company reported over 1,500 employees, and 25 offices in 15 countries, located across North America, South America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region.
However, the following month, iTunes 12.6.3 was also released, retaining the App Store, with 9to5Mac noting that the secondary release was positioned by Apple as "necessary for some businesses performing internal app deployments".
In a TechCrunch editorial by Devin Coldewey, he described the ads as "huge" in the space they occupy, "intolerable" in the way they appear in the user interface, and "irrelevant" due to the lack of context.
This leads to the most attractive women on these sites receiving an overwhelming number of messages, which can in some cases result in them leaving the site.
See also Comparison of file hosting services Comparison of online backup services Remote backup service == References ==
Mind maps can be shared with colleagues internally or externally via an email invitation to collaborate, or via a hyperlink.
As of 2021, F-Droid Limited was no longer used for donations, and was being shut down, according to spokesman Hans-Cristoph Steiner.
A Cloud Guru was an online learning platform that specializes in teaching cloud computing and related technologies.
These forms of social capital are found to contribute to student learning outcomes in East Asian countries such as Singapore, Korea, and Hong Kong.
Daum Kakao is the company behind the Kakao messaging service and Daum is a Korean web portal with many services.
The company was founded in January 2013, while the BlueLine Grid mobile app was launched in May 2014.
From the time of the release of BlackBerry 10.3.1, it will not be possible to upload new Adobe Air-based apps to BlackBerry World.
BlueLine Grid is a company that provides a mobile communication and mass notification platform built for interagency communication between civil service employees and private sector security teams.
By October 2022, AppGallery had established itself as one of the world’s top app markets, with over 220,000 HMS-based Android apps.
See also List of social platforms with at least 100 million active users References External links Official website
However, following the introduction of the new Disqus in 2012, language support was reduced to seven languages.
The issues prompted Apple to remove infected apps from the store and issue a statement that it was "working with the developers to make sure they're using the proper version of Xcode".
A P2P MMO may potentially be more scalable and cheaper to build, but notable issues with P2P MMOs include security and consistency control, which can be difficult to address given that clients are easily hacked.
However, the growing number of multi-platform blogging apps has increased mobile blogging popularity in recent years creating a brand new market that many celebrities, regular bloggers and specialists are utilizing to widen their social reach.
After five free applications were listed for the year, each additional free application could be listed for a $19.99 USD fee.
"Dislike" button During a public Q&A session in December 2014, CEO Mark Zuckerberg answered questions regarding the public's wish to have a "dislike" button on Facebook.
The development of (VR) and consequently the e-Society is based on improvement and balancing of participants’ interaction methods, hardware necessary for such interaction, content presentation and effort required for development and maintenance.
Joined with Twitch and YouTube, it constitutes a powerful tool in the kit of industry up-and-comers" and that the "system would impact the play of millions at mass scale [...].
Their specialists uncovered 9 trojans that were available on Google Play Store with over 5.8 million installs among them.
The com.atproto lexicon for XRPC calls is used for endpoints that should be widely adopted across services and is referenced in the specification.
The company launched Braze Alloys in 2018, a network of over 45 integration applications with companies like Segment, mParticle, and Amplitude.
In addition, business professionals must maintain digital literacy in order to understand the capabilities of social technologies and incorporate them into daily function.
There was also a Samsung Apps TV for smart TVs, which had gotten 10 million downloads by October 2011.
It can also be applied to different business scenario from talking to an oversea business acquaintance without having to schedule an appointment to brainstorming a new product ideas with the team using group chat.
Cydia Substrate, the code injection library usually installed alongside Cydia, will detect if an installed package causes SpringBoard to crash, and will reboot it in a "safe mode", with all third-party packages temporarily disabled.
Communication software and database options vary, from the DigiChat front-end / character database back-end pairing pioneered by Conrad Hubbard at White Wolf Publishing, to the numerous AOL, hangouts and Yahoo chats with hosted character databases.
In November 2017, it became the first WordPress solution to be certified in Amazon Web Services' Competency Program.
BBS: The WELL, GEnie, The Meta Network Academic: EIES, Usenet Webcomic: UserFriendly, Penny Arcade, Sluggy Freelance Virtual world/city: LucasFilm's Habitat, Second Life, Millsberry, Red Light Center, IMVU, Neopets, Roblox IM: ICQ, Yahoo!
Native video formats are specific to each social platform and are designed to maximize video engagement (i.e.
Disqus also injects untrusted and potentially dangerous third party advertising code into containing webpages.
Running some sort of computation with sensitive information would then need to be encrypted properly and the overhead of that encryption may reduce the usefulness of the P2P offloading.
On February 4, 2009, Pink Visual offered a $10 discount on selected sites in "compensation for (the) Super Bowl porn mishap" in which Tucson, AZ area Comcast customers had their service interrupted for 30 seconds by an uncensored Pink Visual video.
i.TV's financial backers include venture capital firms Union Square Ventures (backer of Twitter, Tumblr and other companies), RRE Ventures, Rho Ventures, Time Warner Investments, DIRECTV, and others.
These activities range from record keeping and on-line testing to hypermedia presentations and from individual exploration to group collaboration.
Its menus are a bit drab, but they're intuitive almost to the point of genius, and the package is especially celebrated for its fantastic line-of-sight dynamic lighting system".
Editions Apart from the community edition that is distributed as open source software, there are three commercial editions with a modified features set, targeted at learning professionals, educational institutions and enterprises.
You also can't use the dynamic lighting functions unless you pay the sub, although you'll still have a fog of war option if you choose not to pay.
Commonly referred to as GCM, Google Cloud Messaging served as C2DM's successor, making improvements to authentication and delivery, new API endpoints and messaging parameters, and the removal of limitations on API send-rates and message sizes.
The platforms listed refer to an application that is installed on a web server (usually requiring MySQL or another database and PHP, perl, Python, or some other language for web apps).
History Braze was co-founded as Appboy in 2011 by Bill Magnuson, Jon Hyman, and Mark Ghermezian, who raised $3 million from investors to start the company.
In April 2022, the company was acquired by German-based cybersecurity firm Utimaco to expand its services to include public-warning and mass notification systems.
The last group (high knowledge/pull), the "patrons" covers situations where customers actively give permission to be contacted and provide personal information about themselves, which allows for one-to-one communication without running the risk of annoying them.
Under the plan, developers who carry out ad campaigns on DU Ad Platform will receive 100 percent of the revenues from those campaigns.
During this period, iPads also began to account for a higher share of Internet traffic than iPhones (46.8% vs.
It's objective is to be a digital medium where Black women can discuss literature, opinions, poetry, and journalism to establish a dialogue from the perspectives of racialized women.
In turn, the Index's statistics have been regularly cited by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), consumer advocates and many other groups as the national source for robocalling data trends.
Some zombie groups used living characters as spies and saboteurs, usually during or in preparation for a major attack on a safe house (mainly shopping malls).
In 2017, a man was fined 4,000 Swiss francs by a Swiss regional court for liking defamatory messages on Facebook written by other people which criticized an activist.
General Operating system support Connectivity Privacy Some messaging services that are not designed for privacy require a unique phone number for sign-up, as a form of identity verification and to prevent users from creating multiple accounts.
GLB files could also be directly exported from a variety of 3D editors, such as Blender, Vectary, Autodesk 3ds Max (using Verge3D exporter), Autodesk Maya, Modo, Microsoft Paint 3D, Substance Painter and others.
Channel program Miss Spider's Sunny Patch Friends, Miss Spider's Bedtime Story tells the story of Miss Spider and her husband, Holley, trying to get their children to go to bed on time.
User Modeling, Adaptation and Personalization: 23rd International Conference, UMAP 2015, Dublin, Ireland, June 29 -- July 3, 2015.
In September 2019, Apple launched Apple Arcade, a subscription service for video games within the App Store.
The following table shows content availability by country: It has been discovered that there are a number of workarounds for accessing the Zune Pass and other Zune Marketplace capabilities outside of the countries where it has been launched.
After some months, the reward was increased to $25,000 and later to $50,000, challenging experts from institutions like Harvard, Stanford or MIT.
Content management systems (CMS) are used to organize and facilitate collaborative content creation.
Telecoms senior executives who have taken the Equilibrium/Arbitrage simulation say it is the most intense, and most useful training they have ever experienced.
Investors The company's investors include Oliver Slipper, Nicole Junkermann, Cesc Fàbregas, Thierry Henry, Robin van Persie and Tony Parker.
It is used to build digital fan bases, drive TV audiences and generate revenue from third-party sponsors and pay-TV subscriptions.
Daum offers various Internet services to web users, including a popular free web-based e-mail, messaging services, shopping, news services.
In August 2017, the company received $50 million in Series D Financing and later that year, Appboy rebranded to Braze, Inc.
At the end of February 2022, it was announced that the Mobilcom-Debitel brand would be discontinued in July of the same year in favor of freenet.
More than 12,000 games were available.[2][ 3][ 4] New applications for the three existing Amiga-like operating systems[5] are generally ported from the open source (mainly from Linux) software base.
At the time, the testing was limited to a "small number of users in Australia and Thailand", with the ad format being swipe-based carousel ads.
Features may include limiting access to authenticated users, tracking of user actions, integration with single sign-on services, and a lack of the advertisements normally present on public sites.
In March 2015, the company announced the launch of its Experience Cloud platform, a way for companies to manage interactions over 23 social media channels and websites.
Its main products are the ANGEL Learning Management Suite (LMS), ANGEL ePortfolio, and services offerings.
Technology The distributed LIBOX platform effectively creates private clouds that communicate between devices and Web browsers through a combination of algorithms, grids and peer-to-peer networking technologies.
The seven primary icons represent the game card software, "Nintendo DSi Camera", "Nintendo DSi Sound", "Nintendo DSi Shop", "DS Download Play", "PictoChat", and "system settings"; additional applications could be downloaded from the DSi Shop.
External links Official website AltStore on GitHub Notes 1.^ AltStore PAL is only available on iPhone.
Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems and Design of Communication - ISDOC '14.
One popular use of custom feeds has been to create a way for users to bookmark posts by replying with a pin emoji (📌), a feature not natively implemented by the platform until 2025.
The company suspended services in 2015, citing "the evolving landscape in our challenging industry" and lack of engagement by the online community, and ceased trading in 2018.
Blocks and blacklisting On 16–18 November 2011, Virgin Media customers were unable to download from the site after it was blacklisted by the Internet Watch Foundation due to a single upload containing illegal content.
Buffer also provides a tool for comment replies called Community, which supports Threads, LinkedIn, Bluesky, Instagram, Facebook, and X.
In October 2012, Betable partnered with game developers Slingo, Digital Chocolate, and Murka Games to incorporate betting into the developers' current offerings.
Such a website typically offers a blend of social and organizational tools, such as annotation, categorization, folksonomy-based tagging, social cataloging and commenting.
According to the BlueSpice developers this release aims for opening up BlueSpice for freelance developers in the global MediaWiki community and multiple language versions.
This integration facilitates digital marketers utilizing the Adobe Marketing Cloud to incorporate mobile wallet offerings seamlessly with Passbook and Google Wallet, alongside SMS and Push messaging, into their marketing campaigns.
This means, if user and consumer has in order some new wallpaper or ringtone, this as the user expects has to work somehow almost properly, and in a speedy and very reliable way.
Modern IRC server software has largely eliminated this method, but servers using older software may still be vulnerable.
Tresorit provides client side zero-knowledge encryption, across all platforms, even from web browsers.
In Apple's granted patent, Apple cited two Klausner Technology patents (US Pat #5,283,818 and US Pat #5,333,266) as being prior art.
Iwata described having to resize the console so close to manufacturing as being essentially the same as making another handheld.
Vibes operates as a privately owned enterprise specializing in mobile marketing, encompassing text message marketing (SMS and MMS), mobile wallet marketing, push notifications, and mobile web experiences.
In 2016, Tresorit launched its non-governmental organization (NGO) initiative with the aim of improving the digital security of non-profits and has gained notable recognition within the sector where the protection of sensitive information is paramount.
Additionally, research on online personalities has been done that could potentially extrapolate to the phenomena of online roleplaying.
See also Social bookmarking List of social bookmarking sites List of Firefox extensions References Oliver Kaven (2005-06-01).
The Galaxy Store (Korean: 갤럭시 스토어) is an app store offering apps, games and exclusive themes and other customizations for mobile devices manufactured by Samsung Electronics.
Up to five smartphones could be used to access the library in Google Play Music, and up to ten devices total.
The platform was created to be self-hosted and currently comes with pretty normal requirements, working with most shared hosting environments around.
The app auto-played videos as soon as it was launched, which Kevin Systrom contrasted to video hosts where one must first locate a video.
Depending on the feature-set of a particular search engine, these results may then be saved and added to community search results, further improving the relevance of results for future searches of that keyword.
According to the reactions of the crowd, he changes his ideas and opinions and goes back on his promises.
Debian saw its last update in 2020/Q1, and openSUSE removed it in 2021/Q1 following build failures with contemporary toolchains.
Prior to Zune Marketplace's music becoming DRM-free, songs were protected by Windows Media DRM, however, the Zune Software only allowed WMDRM content from the Zune Marketplace to be transferred to Zune devices.
Suler found that, despite the various layers hiding the person behind the character, there is still a presence of the true personality of the roleplayer.
Editors cautioned F-Droid can give users more control and better privacy and security, but also takes more diligence.
They have been shown to have a significant impact, not only on creating a learning and caring school climate, but also on improving the quality of schooling and reducing inequality of learning outcomes between social-class groups.
Web Compatibility Test for Mobile Browsers – Version 2 A second version of the Web Compatibility Test for Mobile Browsers was released in January 2010, this time testing HTML5 elements.
Future services would include options to move money between accounts, pay bills, and purchase travel tickets.
In the first half of 2005, the digital music market grew enough to offset the fall in the traditional music market – without including the sale of ringtones, which still makes up the majority of mobile music sales around the globe.
It first licensed video compression technologies to Nintendo in 2004 in order to deliver up to 90 minutes of TV-like video on 32MB cartridges for the Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS.
At launch, Bluesky itself, Wired, The New York Times, and The Athletic were among the initial batch of trusted verifiers.
App Adoption - A page that shows adoption of the app, including conversions, referrers, and downloads.
Google Play is currently supported on Android smartphones & tablets, ChromeOS, Android TV, Wear OS, and the web.
References Further reading Internet Game Timeline 1969-1990 Archived 2006-04-25 at the Wayback Machine Koster, Raph (2002-02-22).
Forum spam defenses Most forums are at risk of continuous attack by forum spammers, largely promoting websites with no relevance to the forum's niche.
This is a list of notable social software: selected examples of social software products and services that facilitate a variety of forms of social human contact.
The App Store's early landscape allowed such apps to succeed, with the creators reporting that they made $10,000 to $20,000 a day.
History In 2015, Ant Stanley and Ryan Kroonenburg established the company in London, United Kingdom.
The ANGEL LMS was created using the early system concepts and was released by the newly formed CyberLearning Labs, Inc.
These are usually more expensive and are commonly used by enterprises and governmental organizations.
Huggle was a location-based social application which connected users based on commonality of places they frequent.
As a result of this strategic pivot, both the Handango and PocketGear websites were shut down in 2013.
The SiteBar bookmark server is open source software published under the GPL, which enables anybody to run their own SiteBar server and keep their bookmarks under their control.
2013 security breach In 2013, a Swedish group called Researchgruppen obtained and exposed a large number of anonymous Disqus identities through the application programming interface (API).
This emergence has resulted in expanding social possibility and also in increased incentives to cheat.
This service allowed subscribers to access a downloadable game portal and play advanced 3D mobile games, including MMOs.
In July 2011, the Swedish developer Bithack pulled its Apparatus application from the Appstore and published an open letter explaining that the store was a "disaster" for indie developers.
After reaching a critical mass of registrations, Gascoigne built and designed the first version of the application software over a span of 7 weeks.
imo.im has implemented end-to-end encryption for its chats and calls, ensuring that the conversations remain private between the sender and receiver.
Initially, apps could be free or paid, but then in 2009, Apple added the ability to add in-app purchases which quickly became the dominant way to monetize apps, especially games.
In 2003, it launched Handango InHand, a mobile app store that enabled users to discover, purchase, and install software directly on their mobile devices.
In 1935, he wrote an article called "The Place of Social Sciences in Modern Education," in which he wrote about the nature of an effective education in the social sciences to reach effective education by the willing masses.
Commodore International released the programming specifications and development computers to various software houses, prominently Electronic Arts, a software house that then offered Deluxe Paint, Deluxe Music and others.
The original goal of ZCP was to be a replacement for Microsoft Exchange, so that users could retain Outlook as a client application.
The development of e-Society is relying and depending on the development of virtual reality (VR) technologies that insure interaction between participants of an e-Society in a more acceptable and tangible way.
SaurikIT contended that Cykon registered the domain name in bad faith and the domain name incorporates SaurikIT's trademark.
However, the popularity of mobile video apps such as Snapchat and especially TikTok, which use the more mobile-friendly portrait format, have led to an increase in the production of vertical videos by advertising companies.
It originally served as the development test bed for the jabberd project, the original Jabber/XMPP server.
Nintendo licensing Nintendo selected Mobiclip as its main provider of video codec technologies on the Game Boy Advance, Nintendo DS, Nintendo Wii and Nintendo 3DS.
This can occur either by a socket producing an error, or by excessive lag in which the far server A anticipates this case (which is called a timeout).
They also were key contributors to OPS (Open Profiling Standard), a recommendation to the W3C (along with Netscape and VeriSign) to what eventually became known as the P3P (Platform for Privacy Preferences).
Facebook has seen much success through other applications like Snapchat and Instagram, especially since Facebook bought Instagram for $1 billion in 2012.
The target can be identified by an URI (e.g., fragment identifiers) and/or a selector that defines a domain-, resource- or application-specific access protocol, e.g., offset-based, XPath-based, etc.
Michael Nash, executive VP of digital strategy and development at WMG, said that they chose to partner with Cisco, because "we are not a technology company".
References Further reading After the Disaster: Civic Startups to the Rescue External links Official website No longer active, now an erectile disfunction website.
History WhoSay was founded in March 2010, by Steve Ellis and the Los Angeles-based talent agency Creative Artists Agency (CAA).
Many critics were disappointed by the removal of the GBA cartridge slot, but some of them, such as PCWorld's Darren Gladstone, Bit-tech's Joe Martin, and IGN's Harris and Lowe, believed that it was a reasonable exchange for SD card support and the DSi Shop.
See also Citizen journalist Mobile journalism Ushahidi References External links Wireless and the Future of the Newspaper Business
Milestones In 2006, MindMeister's first prototypes were created, in which mind maps were developed with 1x1 px DIVs.
eFront is commonly included in lists of well known open-source learning systems or is referred to as a Moodle alternative.
On the home page there are a number of short films that can be downloaded for free, although most of the catalogue can only be accessed through entering a code.
The app automatically checks a user in at any locations they visit and adds the location to their list of places.
CNET and PCWorld considered the DSi Shop to be the most important buying incentive for current DS owners.
Pelo previously co-founded Folio Corporation and served as founding CEO of the parent company of Ancestry.com, among other ventures and projects.
tag renaming, moving, merging) abilities that can be put in place to manage the folksonomy generated from user tagging.
This was seen as a response to the popularity of other video conferencing platforms such as Zoom and Skype in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic.
In microblogging, all messages are designed to be very short due to the traditional 140-character limit on message size, a limitation imported from SMS.
Awards Roll20 was named the Gold Winner in the "Best Software" category of the ENnie Awards in 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016.
Usage It must be preinstalled on iOS, Hyper OS, Android, and Harmony OS devices by law for Russian users.
Geographic availability As of March 2024, YouTube Music is available in most of the Americas, Europe and Oceania, as well as parts of Africa and Asia, with a total availability in 119 markets.
In most countries, SMS senders need to identify themselves as their business name inside their initial text message.
Independently from Web Annotation, more specialized data models for representing annotations on the web have been developed, e.g., the NLP Interchange Format (NIF) for applications in language technology.
Helping combat robocalls their service replaces an ordinary voicemail; it instead plays three notes that create the impression of a non-working number to prevent robocalls from coming in.
In July 2011, Kurt Abrahamson joined the company as CEO and served for 7 years before transitioning into an Executive Chairman role.
Zune devices, Windows Phone devices and the Microsoft Kin phones permit the download and streaming of music; Windows Phone devices additionally allow the download of applications.
Subsequently, Celltick became known for providing services to mobile operators and governments in Europe to meet the requirements of Article 110 in the legislation of the European Electronic Communications Code, mandating all member states to deploy a mobile public warning system by June 2022.
The Atlas platform includes Atlas Blueprints, which provides developers with free website templates designed by professionals, and Atlas Sandbox, which allows users to create prototype headless WordPress projects.
The company was named the 2020 Gartner Peer Insights Customers' Choice for Content Collaboration Tools.
Criticism, privacy, and security concerns Privacy issues have been noted as inherent in the use of services like Disqus, which serve their content through third-party JavaScript widgets.
Native video is video that is uploaded to or created on social networks and played in-feed, as opposed to links to videos hosted on other sites.
If you have a Windows Mobile 6.x phone you can continue accessing the application store from the Marketplace client on your phone.
Logos Service Daum Mail The popularity of Daum stems from the range of services it offers, but also from the fact that it was the first Korean web portal of significant size.
Roll20 is available in English, with moderate support for 17 other languages through community-contributed translations using Crowdin.
The project has also been involved in notable industry collaborations, including a partnership with Epic Games.
Many cloud storage services state that they either encrypt data before it is uploaded or while it is stored.
LiveJournal responded by removing the advertisement from the website and issuing an apology to its users.
After the launching of Friendster as a social gaming platform in June 2011, the number of registered users reached over 115 million.
The company failed to disclose that it was placing those same profiles on a long list of affiliate site domains such as GayPozDating.com, AIDSDate.com, HerpesInMouth.com, ChristianSafeHaven.com, MeetBlackPOZ.com, HIVGayMen.com, STDHookup.com, BlackPoz.com, and PositivelyKinky.com.
Mary Meeker, a partner at Silicon Valley venture capital firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, highlighted the growth of vertical video viewing in her 2015 Internet Trends Report - growing from 5% of video viewing in 2010 to 29% in 2015.
Proximity-based marketing: Companies can deliver advertisements merely to individuals in the same geographical location, while location-based services send advertisements prospective customers of the area who may truly take action on the information.
Examples of this types are Smashfuse, SocialMention, Topsy and Social Searcher, originally linked to Facebook.
R&D projects Open Source Contributions ANGEL Learning recently contributed source code to the development of the IMS/GLS Common Cartridge Digital Content and to educational wiki development through a source code contribution to TiddlyWiki.
Analysis of the Publication Sharing Behaviour in BibSonomy, Proceedings of the Conceptual Structures: Knowledge Architectures for Smart Applications, Springer, 2006 Dominik Benz, Andreas Hotho, Robert Jäschke, Beate Krause, Folke Mitzlaff, Christoph Schmitz, and Gerd Stumme.
So-called MAPI providers (essentially plugins) abstract and take care of the underlying transport mechanism.
Until November 2015, the equivalent of "liking a tweet" was "favoriting a tweet" and favorites were symbolized by a gold star ().
Appticles is a multi-channel mobile publishing platform that assists content creators to package their existing content into cross-platform web applications.
MindMeister allows users to share and edit mind maps, leave comments and feedback, attach files, images, videos, and link to external, as well as internal sources, via embedded URLs.
History Before creating The Luupe, Keren Sachs was the Director of Content Development at Shutterstock, where she helped create Offset, Shutterstock's premier content library.
was introduced to the app, which allows users to answer five questions regarding which historical event of two given events occurred first.
Windows Marketplace for Mobile was a digital distribution service by Microsoft for its Windows Mobile platform that allowed users to browse and download applications that had been developed by third parties.
Through a combination of technical measures, co-operation and information sharing, the Alliance seeks to create significant barriers to the misuse of mobile networks and services for hosting, accessing, or profiting from not approved content.
Zambrano, for Bell of Lost Souls, commented that "it seems that an era of consolidation is on the way as players like WotC and Roll20 move to consolidate their powerbases".
CONFER – CONFER II on the MTS, CONFER U on Unix and CONFER V on VAX/VMS, written by Robert Parnes starting in 1975.
When a voicemail is desired, the mobile phone downloads the message using the Internet Message Access Protocol and plays the audio file on the device.
Some have voiced concerns in regards to Messenger Room's privacy and how its parent, Facebook, handles data.
Once installed, Betable acts as a turnkey gaming engine that manages all real-money tasks within a game such as identity verification, anti-fraud safeguards, regulatory compliance, transactions, auditing, and gambling mechanics.
Wi-Fi Neighbor Awareness Networking (NAN), also known as Wi-Fi Aware, service discovery frames are NAN-specific public action frames.
Because the Bluetooth system hops over 79 channels, the probability of interfering with another Bluetooth system is less than 1.5%.
In 2015, one of the co-developers, Matthias Wählisch was awarded the Young Scientist Award of the Forum for Excellent Young Scientists for the contributions of his team to the open source operating system RIOT.
Although each device contained 250–300 processors, the architecture allowed devices to be connected to form far larger systems, in some cases with tens of thousands of cores.
Transceiver-only modules These modules only include the RF transceiver and do not include a microprocessor.
Wireless Medical Telemetry Service (WMTS) is a wireless service specifically defined in the United States by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for transmission of data related to a patient's health (biotelemetry).
The network resource utilization can potentially reach its instantaneous maximum, in spite of volatile changes and demand placed on the network.
In the former case, we are satisfying all three of our goals--we are using a direct path of high utilization and high capacity.
It comprises the majority of components added by the Zigbee specification: both ZDO (Zigbee device object) and its management procedures, together with application objects defined by the manufacturer, are considered part of this layer.
It would also allow unpowered sensors to communicate, allowing them to function in places where external power cannot be conveniently supplied.
Further features of the MAC layer include power saving mechanisms (using sleep mode and idle mode) and handover mechanisms.
History The consortium was formed in 2005 by mobile phone operators and vendors to promote the UMA technology.
There are two editions of CommView: the standard edition for Ethernet networks and the wireless edition for 802.11 networks named CommView for WiFi.
If the protocol was configured to send one packet of 180 bytes every 5 seconds, it would consume 3% of overall network bandwidth.
The URI beacons transmit a URI which could be a link to a webpage and the user will see that URI directly on their phone.
Status As of 2012 the Li-Fi Consortium outlined a roadmap for different types of optical communication such as gigabit-class communication as well as a full-featured Li-Fi cloud, which includes many more besides wireless infrared, and visible light communication.
By specifying interfaces, a component cannot call the send command unless it provides an implementation of the sendDone event.
Interworking architecture For the vertical handover between UMTS and WLAN, there are two main interworking architecture: tight coupling and loose coupling.
Of the 30 MHz that remained for licensed ITS uses, 10 MHz was kept for DSRC (Channel 180, 5.895–5.905 GHz) and 20 MHz was reserved for a successor to DSRC, LTE-CV2X (Channel 183, 5.905–5.925 GHz).
Demand for spectrum To cope with increased demand for wireless broadband, increased spectrum would be needed.
In general, CDRH encourages manufacturers and users of medical telemetry devices to move to the new spectrum because of its protections against interference from other intentional transmitters and because frequency coordination will be provided.
Aironet 1700 Series Aironet 1850 Series Aironet 1200 Series 1210/1220/1230 - 2.4 GHz 802.11b with optional 802.11a (5 GHz) "flappy" antenna module.
The device has an internal memory slot for microSD card that supports up to 32 GB and approximately 4.5 hours battery life.
Products In June 2003, Cognio announced "intelligent spectrum management" technology, sometimes called cognitive radio.
TFA-Wireless TFA and Rice University operate the TFA-Wireless project, which provides free high-speed wireless Internet to Pecan Park, Houston.
However, with advances in mobile devices technology, this distance for proper receiving is increasing to reach 250 meters or more in nowadays smart phones, tablet computers and other mobile devices.
Apple never commented publicly on the reasons why other than that they accessed 'private frameworks.' This removal of an entire category of software from the App Store pushed Wardriving software to other platforms such as Android and Windows.
The Wireless Telephone Applications Interface (WTAI) is a protocol used in conjunction with the Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) to allow a phone number to be linked to a web page.
The system's optional location-tracking capabilities allow users to monitor community members without relying on data-intensive commercial applications.
On 18 July 2019, the designation recorded by Internet Assigned Numbers Authority was altered from "044/8 Amateur Radio Digital Communications" to "044/8 Administered by ARIN".
HyperWRT – Early power-boosting firmware project to stay close to the official WRT54G and WRT54GS firmware but add features such as transmit power, port triggers, scripts, telnet, etc.
Technology NB-Fi Protocol employs a Narrow Band technology that enables communication using the Industrial, Scientific and Medical ISM radio band (and in other parts of sub-GHz license-free spectrum as well).
Notable installations In 2006, Firetide announced that they were going to supply their technology to Singapore's Wireless@SG project.
Work then began on amendment P1900.4.1a for dynamic spectrum access networks in white space frequency bands, and P1900.4.1 for interoperability between components of the IEEE 1900.4 system.
CWICP® - Certified Wireless IoT Connectivity Professional Expert Level Certifications CWISE® - Certified Wireless IoT Solutions Expert A candidate can only achieve the expert level CWNE certification after earning the CWNA, CWSP, CWAP and CWDP certifications.
According to codes in the documentation, the initial MN-510 was developed by Accton Technology Corporation.
In April 2015, Zamano, signed a deal with Three mobile to allow the company's technology to be used as a conduit by e-commerce providers.
Although this model provides flexibility for the nodes to change the direction, it imposes geographic restrictions on node mobility.
There are client and server implementations of EAP-TLS in 3Com, Apple, Avaya, Brocade Communications, Cisco, Enterasys Networks, Fortinet, Foundry, Hirschmann, HP, Juniper, Microsoft, and open source operating systems.
ComProbe 802.11 Analyzer, Frontline Bluetooth Low Energy Protocol Analyzer, CRT4BT, Codenomicon Robustness Tester for Bluetooth FTS4USB USB Protocol Analyzer, Serialtest, NetDecoder for ControlNet and numerous additional industrial protocols and buses, and Ethertest.
In Summer 2016, MSC's production White Space Infrastructure Radio, the RaptorXR, began field trials in the mid-western United States for educational, financial, and public safety applications.
This means that an application that uses small packets (e.g., VoIP) creates a data flow with higher overhead and lower information rate.
The idea of the Wireless Grid Fabric involves using multihop base stations (MR-BS) to forward messages to and from the network.
In September, 2019, Amazon announced the Sidewalk network and a domestic pet collar called Fetch (developed together with Tile) as the first device which would use the network.
This mode allows continuous uplink messaging while respecting the FCC dwell-time requirements, enabling significantly higher throughput and message density than duty-cycle-restricted bands.
Supporting TTLS on these platforms requires third-party Encryption Control Protocol (ECP) certified software.
Bay Networks had originally launched Netgear as a product line/division in January 1996, but the product line was not core to the newly formed Nortel Networks operations and so was spun out as a standalone company in September 1999.
For example, prior to OpenWrt 8.09 (based on Linux 2.6.25 and the b43 kernel module) WLAN for many Broadcom-based routers could only be had via the proprietary wl.o module (and which required Linux 2.4.x).
They are lower in price than modules which contain a microprocessor and enable the integrator to choose any microprocessor.
This is required to address the problem of providing education and training in remote areas of Nepal.
An EDCF user priority list shares the traffic in 3 access categories (data, video, audio) and user priorities (UP).
References External links HART Communications Foundation official website IEC Webstore for IEC 62591:2016
David Cohen was previously a founder of Frontbridge Technologies, which was acquired by Microsoft and became Microsoft Exchange Hosted Services.
There exists technology to extend backscatter communication range up-to 3.4 kilometers while consuming 70 μW power at the backscatter tag.
When a node joins the mesh network, Netsukuku automatically adapts and all other nodes come to know the fastest and most efficient routes to communicate with the newcomer.
The FX.25 protocol extension provides an error correction "wrapper" around the AX.25 packet, allowing for removal of errors at the receiving end.
Such a multi-beam antenna system increases spectral efficiency, user capacity, and throughput, as well as QoS.
OpenBSD's hostapd OpenBSD's hostapd is a user space daemon that helps to improve roaming and monitoring of OpenBSD-based wireless networks.
Added value In addition to being a fully functional, ad-free and open-source Twitter client, Twimight allowed communication if the cellular network is unavailable (for example, in case of a natural disaster).
This includes how the spectrum is being used, recommendations on whether more spectrum is needed and determine if there is opportunity for some of the spectrum to be returned for other commercial purposes.
Physical layer The physical communication mean used is the inductive coupling signaling working in the near field of a 131 kHz magnetic dipole antenna.
Overview Bitchat uses a hybrid peer-to-peer encrypted messaging architecture, with two complementary transport layers of Bluetooth mesh networking and Nostr for offline and internet communication.
Among those leading research in spatial capacity are Jan Rabaey at the University of California, Berkeley.
The project's goal was to install a nationwide network to enable public Wi-Fi as well as video and voice traffic.
Although the Volume Logic series of applications have since been discontinued, the underlying technology has been adapted for use in Plantronics telephony products.
Fluhrer's attack is an improvement upon earlier work by Golic, Bagini and Morgari, who devised a 270 operations attack on E0.
ToDS and FromDS ToDS is one bit in length and set to 1 if destined to Distribution System, while FromDS is a one-bit length that is set to 1 if originated from Distribution System.
MoPilot (also styled mopilot or mopilot.com) was a mobile website and portal designed for wireless application protocol (WAP) devices.
This may be difficult in dynamic environments where much of the data collected may not be of interest.
Despite it being Green Flag's 25th Anniversary, the motoring organisation set up a mini ‘Control Room’ at the show and let people see for the first time how the system worked.
WPA is a trimmed-down version of the 802.11i security standard that was developed by the IEEE 802.11 to replace WEP.
A commonly used description of time variant channel applies the set of Bello functions and the theory of stochastic processes.
The look of both the case and remote prototypes for the Boxee Box was designed by San Francisco–based Astro Studios, the designer of the Xbox 360 and Microsoft Zune.
It is aimed at enhancing the user experience on mobile devices by providing an easier way to access essential content such as the main navigation, e-commerce related screens, or user account related information, ensuring that those elements are readily accessible while requiring minimal user effort.
Amateurs concerned about encryption are encouraged to help the US amateur radio community police itself by search and viewing such messages, and reporting messages if they spot a violation.
It supports 3 types of transaction: Unreliable One-Way Request Reliable One-Way Request Reliable Two-Way Request External links Open Mobile Alliance == References ==
Mobile devices With increasing number of mobile devices with 802.1X interfaces, security of such mobile devices becomes a concern.
MACAW is a non-persistent slotted protocol, meaning that after the medium has been busy, for example after a CTS message, the station waits a random time after the start of a time slot before sending an RTS.
For example, for basic 20 MHz bandwidth, nine 26-tone RUs can be used, but only four with 52-tone RUs.
Data streaming technology can utilize network externalities, because it brings together supply and demand of large networks of creators and consumers.
Wireless Datagram Protocol (WDP) defines the movement of information from receiver to the sender and resembles the User Datagram Protocol in the Internet protocol suite.
On January 19, 2006 IEEE 802.15.3a task group (TG3a) members voted to withdraw the December 2002 project authorization request (PAR) that initiated the development of high data rate wireless standards.
Most recent applications can employ magnetic sensor data from a smartphone used to wirelessly locate objects or people inside a building.
The authors assert that "this is clearly the fastest and only practical known-plaintext attack on Bluetooth encryption compare with all existing attacks".
OINA created and sold Bluetooth software stack products to chip companies with a focus on mobile devices; OINA products were included in Apple’s iPhone, Motorola’s Razr LG’s Chocolate music phone, and Logitech's FreePulse headphones.
Important Characteristics of the Manhattan Mobility model The mobile node is allowed to move along the grid of horizontal and vertical streets on the map.
Funding Funding for the Turris Omnia initially funded via a crowdfunding campaign at Indiegogo with a target of US$100 000 by 12 January 2016.
Phase memory Each symbol is modulated by gradually changing the phase of the carrier from the starting value to the final value, over the symbol duration.
Long-range Bluetooth routers with augmented antenna arrays connect Bluetooth devices up to 1,000 feet (300 m).
The decentralized, wireless networks scale easily and at low cost, and the radio nodes typically communicate on unlicensed frequency bands (for example 2.4 GHz), in a time-slotted network that is able to coexist with other wireless networks that may or may not be based on the same standard.
{\displaystyle M_{0},M_{1},...} in A {\displaystyle A} , called waypoints, the trajectory of the mobile is defined by traveling from one waypoint M n {\displaystyle M_{n}} to the next M n + 1 {\displaystyle M_{n+1}} along the shortest path in A {\displaystyle A} between them.
In an AWGN channel, the despreaded signal's signal-to-noise ratio is increased by the spreading factor, which is the ratio of the spreading-sequence rate to the data rate.
The pair of hoaxers wrote fake news articles on the forum about toothing and sent them off well-known Internet-based news services.
Line of sight is usually necessary for WISPs operating in the 2.4 and 5 GHz bands with 900 MHz offering better NLOS (non-line-of-sight) performance.
When the spoofed packet arrives at the destination network, all hosts on the network reply to the spoofed address.
homes should have affordable access to actual download speeds of at least 100 megabits per second and actual upload speeds of at least 50 megabits per second by the year 2020.
Internet connection sharing The core functionality of the Nintendo Wi-Fi USB Connector is provided by Windows' Internet Connection Sharing (ICS) feature, which allows a Windows computer to act as a router and automatically configure client devices for Internet access.
Packets may be 1, 3, or 5 slots long, but in all cases, the master's transmission begins in even slots and the slave's in odd slots.
After acquisition, the ARLAN lineup was renamed to Cisco Aironet; the non-802.11 products were supported briefly then discontinued.
Michael Turner added language to the annual defense funding bill that would effectively ban Ligado from receiving contracts with DoD, and Sen.
By expanding the breadth of device-to-application solutions with IPv6, LoRaWAN's addressable IoT market is also broadened to include internet based standards required in smart electricity metering and new applications in smart buildings, industries, logistics, and homes.
SmoothWAN – aggregation of multiple Internet connections and network conditioning using Speedify, Engarde and tinyfecvpn.
ATR resorts to an augmented tree-based address space structure and a hierarchical multi-path routing protocol in order to gain scalability and good resilience against node failure/mobility and link congestion/instability.
WTP runs on top of UDP and performs many of the same tasks as TCP but in a way optimized for wireless devices, which saves processing and memory cost as compared to TCP.
In the latter case we are satisfying at least the last two objectives as we are aggregating traffic as much as possible.
Documentation of three (3) enterprise Wi-Fi projects in which you participated or led in the form of 500 word essays.
Although the standards allow operation in any band from 2 to 66 GHz, mobile operation is best in the lower bands which are also the most crowded, and therefore most expensive.
RIOT runs on processors of 8 bits (such as AVR Atmega), 16 bits (such as TI MSP430), and 32 bits (such as ARM Cortex).
It was submitted in a manner that does not conform with current IPR policies within the Wi-Fi Alliance.
93 (IX), 177–205 Primary documents Bello, Phillip A., "Characterization of randomly time-variant linear channels", IEEE Transactions on Communications Systems, vol.
Depending on the Bluetooth profile, it can provide different access levels to the services and the information located in the device.
In a Report and Order released on June 12, 2000, the FCC allocated a total of 14 megahertz of spectrum to WMTS on a primary basis.
The first commercial launch of a mobile-specific browser-based web service was in 1999 in Japan when i-mode was launched by NTT DoCoMo.
(in English) OCARI: A Wireless Sensor Network for Industrial Environments, ERCIM News 101, April 2015 External links (in English) OCARI Gitlab repository
This wireless access can easily change to use a different wireless Internet (radio) tower as a mobile device user moves across the service area.
It is supposed to improve network coverage in different corners in a house or an apartment, and also provide improved security.
A residential gateway connects a local area network (such as a home network) to a wide area network (such as the Internet).
Coinciding with this decision, the average number of member sign-ups requests per month jumped from about 20 to over 400.
Toothing was conceived as a merger of the two concepts dogging with bluejacking, both of which were frequently mentioned in the UK media around that time.
The modulation of the message symbols scrambles and spreads the signal in the spectrum, and thereby results in a bandwidth of the spreading sequence.
Previously, LoRaWAN has relied upon ALOHA as the medium access control (MAC) layer protocol, but to improve this, the LoRa Alliance's Technical Recommendation TR013 introduced CSMA-CA.
Predictions range up to a factor of 100 to 1 or more, and thus the Internet of people will transform into the Internet of things.
AJAX-powered navigation with animated page transitions that provides ability to create semantic URLs through pushState.
Region monitoring also allows for a small window in which iOS gives a closed app an opportunity to react to the entry of a region.
It is a high-quality Bluetooth codec based on the A2DP Bluetooth protocol and allows a bit-rate of up to 1000 kbps compared to SBC's bit rate of 345 kbps.
At its December 2010 Meeting, the IEEE Standards Association Standards Board (SASB) approved the transfer of projects to the Communications Society Standards Board.
In 1998, it received M.D Anderson Foundation's first $50,000 grant to help build a community technology center at the M.D.
Active sensors actively probe the environment, for example, a sonar or radar sensor, and they require continuous energy from a power source.
References External links Official website Exploit Database DirtyTooth for Raspberry Pi Archived 2018-04-05 at the Wayback Machine
In automotive shops this is common due to rusted, seized, or stripped bolts or aftermarket installations.
Λ i P ] {\displaystyle \theta _{i}=[\mathbf {\alpha } _{i1},...\mathbf {\alpha } _{iP},\mathbf {m} _{i1},...\mathbf {m} _{iP},\mathbf {\Lambda } _{i1},...\mathbf {\Lambda } _{iP}]} are the mixture, mean, and co-variance matrix parameters of the P mixture densities corresponding to class ωi.
Bitchat is a peer-to-peer encrypted messaging app developed by Jack Dorsey, co‑founder of Twitter (now X) and Block, Inc.
Microwave radio relay Microwave radio relay is a technology widely used in the 1950s and 1960s for transmitting information, such as long-distance telephone calls and television programs between two terrestrial points on a narrow beam of microwaves.
Proxim, after taking over Lucent's wireless division, rebranded all their wireless cards to ORiNOCO - even cards not based on Lucent/Agere's Hermes chipset.
Coova chilli – OpenWrt-based with focus on wireless hotspots, a fork of chillifire with focus on wireless hotspot management Flukso – Wireless sensor nodes using an Atheros AR2317 chipset running a patched OpenWrt OS for communication.
This means that after a Bluetooth device has been added to the piconet, each device is assigned a specific time period to transmit and they do not collide or overlap with other units operating within the same piconet.
The goal of the project is to develop expertise in various aspects of satellite design and operation.
History The term ANDSF was first conceived by the 3GPP in Release 8 as part of the effort to standardise the behavior of the ever-growing abundance of 3GPP-compliant UEs (e.g.
The company was named to Light Reading Mobile's list of Top Ten Startups to Watch in 2011, was named a FierceWireless Fierce 15 Top Wireless Company for 2010 and earned the Telecom Council of Silicon Valley SPIFFY Award for Most Disruptive Technology in 2011.
Multipath-fading mitigation Multipath propagation can create internal destructive interference of a wireless signal known as multipath fading.
OpenMPTCProuter – aggregation of multiple Internet connections using Multipath TCP OpenSAN – iSCSI target Storage Area Network realization.
Independent benchmarks of representative communications systems by Berkeley Design (BDTI) indicate that the picoArray delivers significantly better performance-per-dollar than traditional single-core DSP devices.
History In October 1999, the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) allocated 75 MHz of spectrum in the 5.9 GHz band for DSRC-based ITS uses.
Most nodes use both a long range directional antenna for up-link to a hub along with a shorter range omni-directional antenna that provides connections to other nearby nodes.
To avoid interference and maintain reliable operation, hams have designated specific FT8 frequencies in each amateur band.
Since the optimal demodulation of full-response CPM already requires MLSE detection, using partial-response signaling requires little additional complexity, but can afford a comparatively smoother phase trajectory, and thus, even greater spectral efficiency.
Sparse-matrix constructions are another coding-theoretic line: Muramatsu and Miyake introduced a hash-property framework for sparse matrix ensembles and maximum-likelihood coding, proving achievability for Wyner-Ziv coding and related source-coding problems.
Eugene Clark Library (Lockhart) Lockhart Technology Center Madison County Library (Madisonville) Madisonville Workforce Center Margarita Huantes Family Learning Center (San Antonio) Navasota Library Navasota Workforce Center Larry J.
Most of the times simulators play a significant role in testing the features of mobile ad hoc networks.
In May 2016, FireChat introduced FireChat Alerts, which allowed users to "push" alerts during a specific time and in a specific place.
Q15X25 is a digital signal processor-intensive mode designed to pass AX.25 packets on HF with speed and reliability much greater than traditional HF ARQ modems.
Automatic link establishment (ALE) is a method of automatically finding a sustainable communications channel on HF.
A digital canceller is most effective at handling weak signals with delays greater than 1,000 nanoseconds.
The value of the autocorrelation function for the Barker sequence is 0 or −1 at all offsets except zero, where it is +11.
The certification may be renewed by retaking the CWNA exam or by passing one of the 3 professional level certification exams (CWSP, CWAP or CWDP).
History The company was founded in 2014 by Brian Ray and 3 engineers from the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory.
Wi-Fi microcontrollers enable Wi-Fi connectivity for devices so that they can send & receive data and accept commands.
Job Dispatch will be completed by the recovery operator's controller, either by accepting, or rejecting the job and the corresponding transaction being dispatched to the motoring organisation.
These insights led to the T-Layout Experiment, which compared the efficiency of using swipe gestures to access navigational elements against reaching traditional navigation controls.
In contrast to other operating systems with similarly low memory use (such as TinyOS or Contiki), RIOT allows application software programming with the programming languages C and C++, and Rust, also by an experimental application programming interface (API).
This integrates 250–300 individual DSP cores onto a single die (depending on the specific product) and as such it can be described as a massively parallel processor array.
In the multi-hop wireless communications, every packet takes opportunistically available paths and spectrum in the wireless network on each hop.
This helps to create a better Wi-Fi network that reduces interference with other Wi-Fi devices by choosing the least used Wi-Fi channels.
Philips Electronics, Fujitsu, and LG Electronics sued Netgear for patent infringement claiming a complete implementation of the WiFi standard implied violating patents held by Via Licensing pool.
With deterministic and probabilistic discussions of correlation model of two correlated information sources, DSC schemes with more general compressed rates have been developed.
Thus the laptop user might want to use a wireless LAN connection whenever one is available and to revert to a cellular connection when the wireless LAN is unavailable.
In December 2021, Google announced that OnHub routers would no longer receive any software or security updates.
History The Wireless Leiden Foundation (founded in 2002) set up a Wi-Fi wireless network in Leiden, the Netherlands, only with the help of volunteers, with some financial support by sponsors.
Machine control applications, running on the mesh nodes, "take over", when Internet connectivity is lost.
A DTIM is included in beacon frames, according to the DTIM period, to indicate to the client devices whether the access point has buffered broadcast or multicast data waiting for them.
SPENCOMM and NASA In 1961, NASA astronaut Wally Schirra contacted Courtney Graham, a fellow pilot, to discuss creating a design for a small, lightweight headset to be used in the Mercury spacecraft.
The project was not allowed to compete with commercial WiFi services, so the access speed for businesses and the public has been restricted to 256 kilobits per second, with sessions limited to an hour.
The ERC WIMS works on merging micropower circuits, wireless interfaces, biomedical, and environmental sensors and subsystems, and advanced packaging to create microsystems that will have a pervasive impact on society during the next two decades.
in order to model intercity examples and later defined in a more general setting by Le Boudec et al.
A real-time searchable list of all nodes worldwide (including their current status) is available anytime by viewing the IRLP Network at a Glance.
The input to analytical mobility models are simplifying assumptions regarding the movement behaviors of users.
Both EDGE and 1xRTT are 3G standards, as defined by the ITU, but are usually marketed as 2.9G due to their comparatively low speeds and high delays when compared to true 3G technologies.
The Forum promotes and certifies compatibility and interoperability of products based on the IEEE 802.16 standards.
OINA was acquired by Qualcomm in December 2007 under an agreement signed by OINA, Qualcomm, Osprey Acquisition Corporation, and Dashlight; the deal terms were not disclosed.
Monitor mode is one of the eight modes that 802.11 wireless adapter can operate in: Master (acting as an access point), Managed (client, also known as station), Ad hoc, Repeater, Mesh, Wi-Fi Direct, TDLS and Monitor mode.
Specifically, it validates assets served by a third party, such as a content delivery network (CDN).
Cognio was headquartered in Germantown, Maryland (near Washington, DC), United States, and had an additional investments that included Avansis Ventures as a fourth round in April 2007, for a total of $30 million.
This new version of EAP is now called Extended EAP and is available in several versions; these include: EAP-MD5, PEAPv0, PEAPv1, EAP-MSCHAPv2, LEAP, EAP-FAST, EAP-TLS, EAP-TTLS, MSCHAPv2, and EAP-SIM.
Draft version 7.0 was released in December 2020 and the Final 802 Working Group Approval was received in February 2021.
The acceptable level of ROT is often used to define the capacity of systems using CDMA (code-division multiple access).
Each node makes routing decisions locally, so that the network can dynamically adapt to changes in the network by adopting new routes.
Handoff procedure The handover procedure specifies the control signalling used to perform the handover and is invoked by the handover decision algorithm.
Guifi.net is supported by the Guifi.net Foundation, which has been registered as an operator with the Spanish Telecommunications Market Commission (CMT) since April 2009.
The WSSUS (Wide-Sense Stationary Uncorrelated Scattering) model provides a statistical description of the transmission behavior of wireless channels.
An FCC survey, "Broadband Adoption and Use in America," gave the average price of broadband access as $41/month, and said 36 percent those non-users surveyed said the service was too expensive.
Economic and environmental concerns Integrating smart dust into existing systems is very expensive, especially when it is deployed in large systems or satellites.
UMA enabled secure, scalable access to mobile voice, data and IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) services over broadband IP access networks.
Initially, several routing protocols were developed by the 6LoWPAN community, such as LOAD, DYMO-LOW , HI-LOW .
Operators may either key the code manually using a telegraph key and decode by ear, or they may use computers to send and receive the code.
Examples of applications Applications of Barker codes are found in radar, mobile phone, telemetry, ultrasound imaging and testing, GPS, and Wi-Fi.
AirHop develops radio access network (RAN) software that addresses the installation, operation and performance challenges of multi-layer deployments of small cells in 3G and 4G networks.
Unlike mobile VoIP, MoIP is not a VoIP program made accessible from mobile phones or a switchboard application using VoIP in the background.
They are a specific category of application service providers (ASPs), though the latter term may more often be associated with standard web services.
A Bluetooth WPAN is called a piconet, and is composed of up to 8 active devices, and a potentially large number of additional devices in parked mode, organized around a single controlling device (the Central), with all others (Peripherals) communicating through it.
Google Wifi was officially announced on October 4, 2016, with expected availability in the United States in December.
Education and teaching career Cavanagh received his bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and his master's degree from Saint Louis University, both in social work.
A pioneer of social work profession, he excelled as an educator, scholar, internationalist, university administrator, and leader in a variety of professional associations in his long career, spanning more than sixty years.
"Sometimes readers are more willing to go along with serious social issues and racial themes if the story is compelling." Social justice and children's advocacy work Concurrently, Revoyr is executive vice president and chief operating officer of Children's Institute, Inc.
On July 6, 2017, he helped to establish the "LGBT municipality Parliamentary League." It aims to spread regulations and measures to protect the human rights of sexual minorities to local governments throughout the country through local assembly.
Personal life O'Day is married to Marybeth Murphy, with whom he has four sons: Tyler, Max, Patrick, and Kevin.
Ellen DeVoe is a professor in the Clinical Practice Department at the Boston University School of Social Work and founding director of the Trauma Certificate Program.
They married on July 9, 1924, and had five children, four daughters and one son: Reber Consuelo Williams, Gwen Cann, Johnnie Mae Durant, Ruth S.
The organisation that would become the Liverpool Personal Services Society (and later just PSS) was founded in 1919 by philanthropist and prolific social campaigner Eleanor Rathbone and social worker and Keeling in Liverpool.
In 2020, in the Bruce Lee Podcast, she stressed about the importance of mental-health and ancestral trauma healing, and how individual mental-health is directly linked with the health of our planet.
Vishanthie Sewpaul 'The Arc of Our Paths: Growing into Wholeness' (A Memoir) 2020/2021 Vishanthie Sewpaul, Linda Kreitzer and Tanusha Raniga 'The Tensions Between Culture and Human Rights: Afrocentricity and Emancipatory Social Work in a Global World' 2021.
Buchanan's research was focused on studies on children who were looked after, child protection, the impact of divorce, fathering, grandparenting, child-well-being and children at risk of exclusion.
The title of her dissertation was Confronting the pain of infertility: Feminist, ethical and religious aspects of infertilely and the new reproductive technologies.
Her first husband was a newspaper publisher, John Harold Sommers; they married in 1924 and divorced in 1928.
Under this project, SMIC set up several healthcare and educational institutions including basic infrastructure like water tanks, toilets and community kitchens.
Criminologists speculated that even genuine cases may have involved self-appointed child abuse investigators, or individuals seeking to make false accusations, rather than child sexual abusers.
Development and criticism Melrose Place was criticized for not featuring Matt and his love life as prominently as it did other characters.
(social work), Columbia University Awards 1993 Economic and Cultural Diversity Award for his work with AIDS orphans and their families.
Vishanthie Sewpaul publications indexed by Google Scholar Publications by Vishanthie Sewpaul at ResearchGate
On 15 August 2018 she was elected president of the Ordinary Women and Family Commission of the Congress.
Howard authored nearly 400 publications, which includes more than 300 peer-reviewed articles, book reviews, editorials, government reports, and abstracts.
273–283, ISBN 978-1-0353-1245-0{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Fahrudin, Adi (June 2012).
Additionally, she also served on the Taskforce on Healthy Aging at the North Carolina Institute of Medicine between 2022 and 2023.
Frick married Nadine Batliner (born 1 March 1971) on 22 June 2001 and they have three children together.
Career Her teaching focus includes social policy, child and family policy and international social welfare.
Alvarado was the subject of the book Tras los Pasos de Carmen Rivera de Alvarado by historian Angel Pérez Soler, published in 2024.
Johnson remained Director of the School of Social Work until her successor Ernest Witte was appointed in 1939.
Early life and education Princess Jayanti was the first daughter of Prince Basundhara of Nepal and his first wife Princess Helen Shah of Nepal.
References External links 2014 Huffpost Article by Enrile - "Rebuilding Stronger After Typhoon Haiyan" 2018 Interview with Enrile - "U.S.’s fast-growing Filipino-American community confronts human trafficking concerns"
"Djeca bez roditelja i roditelji bez djece" [Children without parents and parents without children].
He is also one of only three Distinguished Public Servants to have their portrait displayed in the Miami-Dade County Stephen P.
She qualified as a Social Worker in 1963 and joined the University of East Anglia as a Lecturer in Social Work in 1979.
She is also Co-Director of the Institute for Child and Family Policy at Columbia University and Co-Director, Cross-National Studies Research Program.
Afterward, he understands why Will is so disturbed and suffering from insomnia and asks where he buried her, but he does not want to talk about it.
Career Motivated by the 1985 neath of a friend from HIV/AIDS, Berman became an AIDS educator, policymaker and service provider at Center on Halsted (formerly known as Horizons Community Services), Heartland Alliance, and the AIDS Foundation of Chicago.
Addams was elected president of the International Committee of Women for a Permanent Peace, established to continue the work of the Hague Congress, at a conference in 1919 in Zürich, Switzerland.
In 2002, she was named Vice Provost (and in 2006 Senior Vice Provost) for Undergraduate Education and University Life.
For post-graduate studies, Nazreen was a distant scholar at Samye Ling College of Scotland and pursued a Nangi Shedra in Indo-Tibetan Buddhism.
Career Completing her schooling in 1914, Petkova worked as a teacher for two years and then entered Sofia University to study law.
The community center she worked at needed a schoolhouse, and Violet asked for a cement donation from her close community.
Greenstone helped more than 60,000 women and children as they passed through Ellis Island, and became known as "the Angel of Ellis Island".
In 2001, he completed the Department of Developmental Disorder Education, Special Course of Special Education, Chiba University .
She graduated from the University of Melbourne after residing in what was then Trinity College Hostel and is now called Janet Clarke Hall.
From 1993 to 1995, she was appointed by mayors Tom Bradley and Richard Riordan as commissioner for the Los Angeles County American Indian Commission.
Additional work As a clinical professor at Barry University's Graduate School of Social Work, Knight served his community and its people in more ways than just professional.
Strier was a graduate of the first class of "Chofen" Institute (Hebrew acronym for "Open Experimental Education Institute") at the Ministry of Education, which, under the leadership of the late Professor Moshe Caspi, sought to advance open and democratic education in Israel.
When Ramos became the 12th President of the Philippines, Amelita became First Lady of the Philippines.
Arrests Wan was arrested on 1 November 2020, along with six other democrats, in connection with the melee that had broken out in the LegCo on 8 May 2020.
See also 2019–2020 Massachusetts legislature 2021–2022 Massachusetts legislature References External links Commonwealth of Massachusetts profile
Garcés Carranza works at the Puerto Rican Family Institute-Outpatient Psychiatric Clinic and at the Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center.
As a result, the Dumping Ground is briefly blue, but re-Beaker-ised thanks to the news reports about the accident.
In the seventeenth issue of the comics, Paige looks for a witch named Sarah at a Salem house; however, she meets Cole who won't let her in.
Kirk holds the Marjorie Crump Chair in Social Welfare at UCLA and is a former psychiatric social worker.
Publications Working with Families in Crisis: An Exploration in Preventive Intervention Notes == References ==
Recognition and reception Uma Preman received over 150 awards, including the Woman Icon Award 2018, Vanitha Woman of the Year 2015 and CNN-IBN Real Heroes (Health and Disability) 2010.
From 1946 to 1947, Das worked in a relief camp in Noakhali, one of seventeen set up by Leela Roy, following the riots which took place there.
Buckingham (Eds.), 1998 Michael Shernoff, AIDS: The Therapist's Journey, in A Perilous Calling: The Hazards of Psychotherapy Practice, M.
She belonged to a Bihari family which moved to Karachi following the Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971.
Eileen Younghusband was also active at an international level, initially through the British Council and the UN, and from 1950 through the International Association of Schools of Social Work (IASSW), initially as board member and from 1961 onwards as (honorary) president.
Active for over 13 years, this unique program assigns social work students, social works, and activists from distressed communities in Haifa side by side, in order to advance community projects, educational programs, and legislation to advance social justice and decrease poverty.
In 2002, he joined the pro-democracy Neighbourhood and Worker's Service Centre (NWSC) as the assistant of legislator Leung Yiu-chung and ran in the 2003 District Council elections, defeating the pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for Betterment of Hong Kong (DAB) in Shek Yam and was re-elected in 2007.
In addition to her work in the JFW, Lady Allan served on the board of directors of the Mico Teachers' Training College.
Refugees and asylum seekers Slonim-Nevo and others are studying the psychosocial condition of asylum seekers from Darfur in Israel.
Biography Eileen Younghusband: A Biography, Issue 76 of Occasional papers on social administration; ISSN 0473-7520 by Prof.
Many artists contributed work for the auction, including donated works by Shalom Moskovitz (Shalom of Safed), Michoel Muchnik, Phillip Ratner, and more.
In 2017, he authored a report, Voluntary Action: A Way Forward, which included an extensive range of recommendations for the future of civil society.
After Partition, Das was instrumental in establishing the Rangirkul Ashram, which she ultimately became leader of.
Biography Perween Rahman was born on 22 January 1957, in Dhaka, then situated in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).
In 1958 she took a course in metalwork and welding at the Natal Technical College and began to make decorative mobiles, going on to create sculptures using bronze, copper, silver, and enamel.
As the home of Laura Ratcliffe from the earliest days of the Civil War until her death, it was Laura's only remaining property and the likely hideaway spot for Confederate soldiers during the Bristoe Campaign.
Career From 1994 to 1998, Mills was a lecturer at the UCLA School of Law and an assistant professor in the UCLA School of Public Policy and Social Research.
The core Hull House residents were well-educated women bound together by their commitment to labour unions, the National Consumers League and the suffrage movement.
She holds honorary doctoral degrees at Mid Sweden University, Sweden, Miguel de Cervantes University, Chile and at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Norway.
Education and career At the University of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, Kaijage received a Bachelor of Arts in education in 1978.
Her undergraduate education was at UC Berkeley School of Social Welfare, earning a bachelor's of social work in 1953 and her Master of Social Work at the same school in 1955.
In 2022, Flynn agreed to plead guilty to federal bribery charges and was sentenced in June 2023 to three years probation and $150,000 in fines.
After expressing her love discreetly for wounded parole officer Henry Mitchell, Paige unlocks the emotional trigger of love to access her healing powers, which she later uses to heal Henry of his gunshot wound.
She deals with the case of Finn Mackay (Sonny Green) and his foster parents Will Cooper (Scott Vickers) and Robbie Fraser (Gary Lamont).
In addition to her duties on Ellis Island, Greenstone assisted the immigrant community in New York by teaching English, arranging activities and events to expose the newly-settled immigrants to American life, and helped to arrange both jobs and marriages.
In 2004, The couple swap houses with Beth Hunter (Clarissa House) and move back into Summer Bay House, Sally's childhood home and take over the running of the caravan park.
For Jewish immigrants, Greenstone established Shabbat services and arranged for deliveries of kosher food to hospital patients.
Santhi Medical Information Center During frequent hospital visits with Preman, Uma noticed the difficulties faced by rural patients in receiving medical help and information and offered to assist them.
In 1989, she founded the NGO Urban Resource Centre in Karachi and was also part of the board of Saiban, another NGO dedicated to low-income housing, and Orangi Charitable Trust (OPP-OCT), the microfinance branch of OPP.
2013 Sitara–i–Shujaat (Order of Bravery, Posthumous) conferred by the President of Pakistan on 23 March 2013 2022 Google celebrated the 65th birthday of Rehman with a doodle.
After graduating from Rockford in 1881, with a collegiate certificate and membership in Phi Beta Kappa, she still hoped to attend Smith to earn a proper B.A.
In the last episode of the first series, Tracy is offered a job for a newspaper in London, and she has to write an article about life in care.
Black died in 1956 and Keeling moved back to Liverpool and she still took an interest in social work and the Citizen's Advice Bureaux.
Starting in the 1970s, he developed numerous studies comparing how social welfare services are provided in the U.S.
A founding member of the Jamaica Federation of Women (JFW), she held many offices in the organization including serving as chair from 1959 to 1962 and again from 1971 to 1976, and then president from 1976 until her death in 1995.
As a social worker, doroshwalther co-authored the report Reinvesting in Economic Justice, Equity and Solidarity for Survivors in New York City.
Wilder was the grant’s director to train health care providers who work with people with HIV, Hepatitis C and Sexually Transmitted Diseases in ways to improve their outcomes.
Research In 1973, Buchanan worked with Jack Oliver on his studies of severely abusing families – with one family they traced back 7 generations.
Susan Schechter (1 May 1946 – 3 February 2004) was an American feminist and activist against domestic violence.
Dorothy Clarissa Keeling (2 December 1881 – 27 March 1967) was a British social worker who joined The Bradford Guild of Help and went on to Liverpool where she transformed voluntary efforts there and in the UK.
She named the facility "Solhem" and it opened in 1914 at the beginning of World War I, as one of the first facilities of its kind in the country.
In 1994, she was featured on a Philippine stamp, and a plaque was erected in her honour at the Philippine Women's University.
ZAMI NOBLA As a child, Adams knew an elderly woman that she called "Miss Savannah" who she spent ample time with.
He moved up to management positions and became the county's first black deputy county manager and assistant county manager.
She most recently served as executive director of the Jefferson County Department of Human Services.
When she reaches the roof of the hospital, she backs away to the edge of the roof and Kayako pulls her off to her death.
She was appointed to the Minimum Wage Committee, served on the Commission on Beaches and Foreshore Lands, and also worked with the Juvenile Court on a panel of advisory Justices of the Peace.
When we are introduced to Paige, her orbing power can only be channeled in panic induced situations as a fear response.
He has completed (with Gray and Midgley) The Handbook of Social Work for Sage, which is the world's first major international reference work in this field.
The administration of social inquiry reports for both children and adults was supervised by the probation services, which included advice, agency referral, counselling, and filing court reports.
After completing a German language course at the Otto Benecke Foundation, she graduated from the Hermann-Ehlers-Gymnasium in Berlin-Steglitz.
In January 2022, Voisin began his tenure as Dean of the Jack, Joseph and Morton Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio.
In 1969, Wichiencharoen was selected as president of the International Women's Association of Thailand.
The local newspapers were full of photographs of the Indian princes when they arrived for the weddings, with headlines like A Thousand and One Nights and A Muslim Wedding.
They later began development on a second film, Inherently Unequal, based on the Lawrence Goldstone's book of the same name.
Career When Khan was a student of the women studies department, she learned about contributions of home based workers and she took up the subject for her Master's thesis.
Other members of the study group, which usually met in Alley's house, included YWCA secretaries Maud Russell, Lily Haass and Deng Yuzhi.
She involved various international organizations to establish a cancer hospital in Nepal, raised social awareness, and led anti-smoking campaigns.
10 years later, Wilson became Captain America after the original Avengers were killed by Kaiju-like monsters led by "Apex" Hulk.
When Violet was younger she was known to be in mission circles, she was able to take this interest in community affairs and through this she as able to establish and organize Bantu Purity League.
Her leaders there encouraged her to pursue higher education at Ole Miss to aid in the integration of the university.
While at college, Knight joined Kappa Alpha Psi fraternity He then served a four-year tour in the United States Air Force and then returned to complete his master's degree in social work from Atlanta University, which he finished in 1957.
In 2006, Slonim-Nevo was nominated by the Israeli Minister of welfare to review the functioning of social workers who provide child custody reports in divorce hearings, Slonim-Nevo committee.
Jesse identified with Jenny more than he did with Frank and Nancy and sought Jenny's advice on various topics over theirs.
He emphasized the importance of social work education in his 1992 book, Internationalizing Social Work Education: A Guide to Resources for A New Century, which was described as "extremely helpful" by Charles Guzzetta.
Publications A selection of books, chapters in books and articles published by Sewpaul can be found on her staff profile at UKZN.
He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from George Williams College in 1934 and his Master of Science degree from the University of Chicago in 1938.
Simpkins Cann also served as president of the Cincinnati chapter of the National Council of Negro Women.
In 2018, Nazreen's efforts were monumental in leading and garnering international support for the Free Shahidul campaign.
She is a graduate of the Federal Judicial Center's National Leadership Development Program and the Senior Executives in State and Local Government program at Harvard's Kennedy School for Executive Education.
She helped establish an Indigenous school in Hidalgo, represented the government at the first World Conference of Educators, and worked with Elena Torres to make the authorities aware of problems facing rural teachers.
He served on the Portfolio Committee on Rural Development and Land Reform and later the Portfolio Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.
In Bialystock, Greenstone managed her father's cigarette factory and helped the factory workers to form a labor union.
Fourth Panel, panel from conference Recognising Sexual Violence, featuring Shirley Jülich, Hildur Fjóla Antonsdóttir, and Lindsey Pointer, 15 Oct 2022, via YouTube
Shernoff produced, following the AIDS death of a partner, an anthology entitled Gay Widowers: Life after the Death of a Partner that ten years later was described as still being the only book to address the specific challenges of grief for gay men having lost their partners.
She moved and took a job in a mental hospital when Black began lecturing in Sheffield in 1950 – Black became the head of the University of Sheffield's Social Science department in 1952.
Jaccard was ranked second among social work scholars worldwide for lifetime productivity, quality, and impact, according to ScholarGPS’ Highly Ranked Scholars 2022.
He was able to help offset any damaging effect of the image of that day that the Indian Christian Church and community were in someway "foreign." Death and burial Balaram died from a heart attack on 17 January 1968.
Legacy Princess Jayanti's mother, Princess Helen, established the Jayanti Memorial Trust (JMT) in her (Jayanti's) memory.
References External links Anu Aga – Director, Profile Archived 18 May 2015 at the Wayback Machine Thermax India.
In 2007, O'Day ran in a special election to represent the 14th Worcester district in the Massachusetts House of Representatives.
Later in 1987, he controversially signed the Unity Accord allowing ZAPU to merge with ZANU to stop the genocide.
He declined the award of an MBE in 2012 as an opponent of the monarchy, arguing the honours system was designed to promote differences of status to which he was opposed.
In 2014, Marvel announced that Wilson would succeed Rogers as the new Captain America, a mantle which the character thereafter assumed in several additional runs.
Before escaping, Bamberger left her belongings for safekeeping at the home of the cantor, Siegfried Würzburger.
Walters was a professor and the Katherine Hall Chambers Scholar at the University of Washington School of Social Work.
In 1922, he joined the striking workers of Assam Bengal Railway and Steamer Company in protest against the atrocities on the workers of tea plantations of Assam.
'The Crowded Stairs' was the title of Dorothy Keeling's book about social work in Liverpool, including the Liverpool Personal Services Society, 'The Crowded Stairs'.
Two issues emerged from her NCDS work: first, the impact of divorce on children’s outcomes and second, the important role of fathers.
They have also been quoted in several news articles on financial abuse in her capacity as a social worker.
The "Probation of Offenders Law 1963" provided for the establishment of probation officers for the island, established codes for adult offenders' supervision, and proscribed the managerial duties for the principal probation officer.
In high school, he played trombone in the marching band and played on the football and baseball teams.
The NGO has successfully managed to get these marginalised waste pickers government recognised occupational identity cards and other loan and health facilities, giving them legitimacy.
Dina Salústio (born Bernardina Oliveira; 1941) is a Cape Verdean novelist, who is the first woman from the country to publish a novel, and the first writer from the country to have a novel translated to English.
The Princess Jayanti Achievement Award Ceremony is collaboratively arranged by Hotel Annapurna and Jayanti Memorial Trust.
"Publicity pursued her," commented a 1948 profile, "and she never ran away from it very fast." Early life Crawford was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the daughter of Andrew Crawford and Isabella Clark Crawford.
Sir Stuart James Etherington (born 26 February 1955) is a British charity executive and former social worker.
She was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire at the end of the war in 1946 for her work with the Citizens Advice Bureau.
Myers, another social work academic at Florida A&M University, Randolph is the author of the book Basic Statistics in Multivariate Analysis (Oxford University Press, 2013).
Life Frick was born on 29 November 1965 in Walenstadt as the son of Ernst Frick and Anna Della Ripa as one of six children.
She is the founder of Santhi Medical Information Center, a nonprofit charitable organization that provides medical guidance, care and rehabilitation for patients with limited income and resources.
Political career In 2018, Cavanagh attempted to run for a seat in the Iowa House of Representatives against Lindsay James.
But Flynn thinks she may have been heading for the Bay, and he's hoping to be there if, and when, she arrives." Shelley Sutherland (Paula Forrest), who ran the centre, was pleased to have him working there.
Annalisa Enrile is a Filipina-American clinical associate professor at USC Suzanne Dworak-Peck School of Social Work.
Addams's autobiographical persona manifests her ideology and supports her popularized public activist persona as the "Mother of Social Work", in the sense that she represents herself as a celibate matron who served the suffering immigrant masses through Hull House, as if they were her own children.
Lily Pincus (née Lazarus, 13 March 1898 – 22 October 1981) was a German-British social worker, marital psychotherapist and author.
Suhasini Das (Bengali: সুহাসিনী দাস; 1915 - 30 May 2009) was an anti-British activist, social worker and politician from Bangladesh.
Meiselman, an important American economist and prominent monetarist, in 1965; he was then working at the World Bank in Washington, D.C.
He is author of several highly cited books including Social Work in a Risk Society (Palgrave, 2006) and Evidence-based Social Work: A Critical Stance (with Gray & Plath, Routledge, 2009).
She is best known for her works in welded copper and other metals, holding her first exhibition in 1960.
The council aims to stimulate innovation, development and commercialisation of life enhancing drugs, treatments and care for people with dementia, or at risk of dementia, within a generation.
(and also was included to the golden fund of national azeri television) “Mirage” (1987) a collection of novel and short stories.
Emergence: Out of the Shadows entered the Canadian Screen Awards for Best Feature Documentary and Best Editing for 2022.
He is also one of a group of friends who live together in the same West Hollywood apartment complex.
(The play “Javad Khan” is included in the golden fund of Azerbaijani television) (The novel “Javad Khan” was first published in the Motherland magazine in 1996) “Scream” (1993) – a play.
DiStefano received her Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree with highest honors from Richmond College (now called College of Staten Island) and her Masters in Social Work degree from the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Life McNairy earned a bachelor's degree sociology in 1968, a master's degree in social work in 1970, and a Ph.D.
CBC Books listed Doctor's 2020 novel Seven on its list of Canadian fiction to watch for in spring 2020.
Modern/Secondary Sources Mentioning [1] osmanian.com: Attributes the slogan "Apna Gaon, Apna Raj" to Raghunath Mahato in 1769; lists "Raghunath Singh" in Phase 4 (1800–1833).
Domingo Namuncura Serrano (born 1952) is a Chilean social worker and politician of Mapuche descent who served as Ambassador of his country in Guatemala.
G H I J K L M See also List of Star Trek characters A–F • N–S • T–Z List of recurring Star Trek: Deep Space Nine characters • Enterprise • The Next Generation • The Original Series • Voyager List of Star Trek episodes == References ==
He founded the Swadesh Bandhab Samiti to promote the consumption of indigenous products and boycott foreign goods.
In April 1992, he founded Megjashi, the first children's embassy in the world, which promotes and protects children's rights as well as provides support for child victims of violence and abuse.
One of her students in that period was Olive Stevenson who would become highly influential as a Social Policy academic and administrator.
In 1938 Gerlach joined the China Defense League organized by Soong Ching-ling, the widow of Sun Yat-sen She helped smuggle money and medical aid to parts of China that had not been occupied and to the Chinese Communists and other group opposed to the Japanese.
With the declaration of war by the United Kingdom on Germany the day before the Kursk was to land, the ship was diverted.
"À la rencontre des jihadistes de Roumieh : Nancy et Maya Yamout reconstituent le puzzle de la violence - Jeanine JALKH".
After the series end, it is shown in flashforwards that Paige accepts her role as a Whitelighter, aiding many witches and future Whitelighters that include her nieces and nephews.
He joined the University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD (UMBC) School of Social Work in 2004 as an assistant professor, and during his time at the school he was promoted to associate professor.
See also List of bishops of the United Methodist Church References Short, Roy Hunter, Bp., History of the Council of Bishops of The United Methodist Church 1939–1979, Nashville, Abingdon, 1980.
The term "down low" specifically addresses African-American males secretly engaging in sexual behavior with other men.
Between July 2021 and March 2022, she served as Presidential Delegate for the Region of Magallanes and Chilean Antarctica, under the presidency of Sebastián Piñera.
Gerlach and 25 other foreigners were honored by Vice Premier Wang Zhen in December 1979 at a banquet in the Beijing Great Hall of the People.
On 1 February 1994, he moved to become Chief Executive of the National Council for Voluntary Organisations (NCVO).
Steph continues the rumour and the other characters are too scared to prevent her because of her "bitchy" characterisation.
In I Am, the actor Sanjay Suri plays Abhimanyu, a child sexual abuse survivor, a character inspired by Harish's life and that of Hyderabad-based fashion designer Ganesh Nallari.
Department of Defense to fund a program that would help support the healthy reintegration of soldiers from Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom into their families." == References ==
Career Born in Hong Kong in 1969, Wan graduated from the City University of Hong Kong with a Bachelor of Social Science (BSocSc) in Social Work, studied at the University of Essex from 2006 and graduated with Bachelor and Master of Arts in Sociology.
His scholarly work has been used in the fields of organizational change, development and administration, and in community organization.
Education Estes earned an AB from La Salle University, followed by a Master of Social Work degree from the University of Pennsylvania and a Doctor of Social Welfare degree from the University of California, Berkeley.
Her early social epidemiological research involved LGBT, two-spirit, and urban American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) populations across the United States.
Education B.A., Sociology, University of California, Berkeley; M.S.W., University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana; D.S.W.
He was twice a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University.
While attending SUNY Stony brook, Berman worked for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention getting transferred in 1976 to Chicago.
She was the sister of author and teacher Ahtsham Ali Memon, and the current head of the OPP, Aquila Ismail.
Reber Simpkins Cann (July 26, 1903 – February 5, 1985) was an American educator, social worker and community activist.
Nazi persecution When the Nazis came to power in Germany in 1933, the entire Bamberger family was persecuted because of their Jewish heritage.
In 2024 Otto assisted in a review study over calcific aortic stenosis, concluding that upon diagnosis of aortic stenosis by echocardiography, there are two major forms of treatment.
Following medical school, Lawton attended the Medical College of Virginia for her general surgery residency and became a research fellow in Ralph J.
Moore Lectureship – 2011, Seattle President's Lecture, Pacific Coast Society of Orthodontics – 2012 Edward H Angle Lecture, AAO Annual Session – San Diego, 2017 == References ==
His current interests are in the area of diagnostic and therapeutic of Neurology, Oncology, Cardiology, and Nephrology/Urology using Nuclear medicine.
Early career and medical school Brewster left school and worked as a teacher for several years, including at the high school in Smethport, Pennsylvania.
He was a member of the Rome Foundation Board for 20 years, a current editor for Up To Date, and past Editor-in-Chief of the American Journal of Gastroenterology and Alimentary Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Program for Evidence-based Patient Guidelines Physicians' Program for Patient Safety and Medical Error Prevention.
He is currently a faculty member at the University of British Columbia, and Editor-in-chief for the journal Medical Education.
There, he worked on dietary treatment of children with food intolerance and Crohn's disease, and showed that exclusive enteral nutrition in children with Crohn's disease was safe.
William Harold Fishman (March 2, 1914 – January 25, 2001) was a Canadian-American cancer researcher who taught at Tufts University from 1948 until his retirement in 1975.
Some of them are in the areas including, not limited to, Neuroendocrine Tumours, Tissue Characterization, Molecular radiotherapy in Children, and Brain Disorder.
https://www.linkedin.com/posts/mcgill-university_mcgill-has-announced-its-spring-2025-honorary-activity-7325953371738173443-eQW1/ Professor Khan was born in Germany.
She received a master of science from Syracuse University and a Master of Public Health at Harvard University.
His lab studies mycobacterial physiology and virulence and has developed many of the genetic tools used to study Mycobacterium tuberculosis and related organisms.
He previously served as Neurology Residency Program Director and Neuroimaging Fellowship Program Director at the University at Buffalo-SUNY.
He is a fellow of Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons an honour bestowed upon him in 2020 for his contributions to the veterinary profession.
1895 mayoral campaign In 1895, Holmes was the Populist (People's Party) nominee for mayor of Chicago.
He then took an MSc in Tropical Animal Health and Production at the Centre for Tropical Veterinary Medicine in the Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, which led to his appointment as Technical Advisor in the Middle East and North Africa, for The Wellcome Foundation.
He became chairman of medicine at University of Virginia School of Medicine in 1939, and professor of physiology at Harvard Medical School in 1943.
Using this data, he and his research team helped establish the system of bile duct cancer stages now used around the world to designate how advanced the cancer has become.
Career Jocelyne Feine is a Professor in the Oral Health and Society Division at the McGill University Faculty of Dentistry.
1: 23-27), the official journal of The Baker Street Irregulars, "The Cheap Romantic" in the Tucson Weekly (11/11/92), and "For the Birds" in Tucson Lifestyle Magazine (7/95), among others.
Prior to his call as a general authority, Parmley served previously in the church as a bishop, stake president, and area seventy.
Landis served as president of the American Society for Clinical Investigation in 1942 and as president of the American Physiological Society in 1952.
He is the founding chair of the board of IAS-USA and sits on the board of Pangaea Global AIDS Foundation, advises at the Accordia Global Health Foundation, and is involved in many other activities to support research in HIV and global health.
He also was briefly a Professor of Biostatistics at the Harvard School of Public Health in Boston before he moved to Canada.
He said virtual colonoscopy finds 90% of large, precancerous polyps but is less successful with smaller ones.
His manuscript titled "Functional imaging of neuroendocrine tumors with combined PET/CT using 68Ga‐DOTATATE (DOTA‐D Phe1,Tyr3‐octreotate) and 18F‐FDG" published in 2008 has been cited more than 300 times alone.
Member Central Advisory Committee of Forensic Sciences, Ministry of Home Affairs and Member of the Central Medico-legal Advisory Committee of Forensic Sciences, Ministry of Health.
He went on to serve as a radiology resident in multiple Swedish hospitals affiliated with Karolinska University from 1949 to 1953.
Bartrip, ‘Wynter, Andrew (1819–1876)’, Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, 2004, accessed 11 Sept 2007 S.
In 1843, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh; his proposer being Sir Robert Christison.
He is the founder and director of the Rippe Lifestyle Institute, located in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts.
Gillenwater with the support of Hovey Dabney, was responsible for the creation of University of Virginia Health Sciences Foundation, with a significant institutional impact enabling innovation and discovery for clinical practitioners and scientists.
He was first professor at Boston University School of Medicine, then Frank Wister Thomas professor of medicine and chair of the department of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine (now the Perelman School of Medicine), and finally a professor at Harvard Medical School.
Gray believed that insanity was always due to physical causes and that the mentally ill should be treated as physically ill.
He was chairman of the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology at the university's Graduate School of Medicine from 1946 to 1957.
He was educated at Cornell University and the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
Her family moved to the United States when she was five, and she became an American citizen at age eleven.
Career at the New England Journal of Medicine Kassirer was first named editor-in-chief of the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) in 1991.
Nemiah was born on November 30, 1918, in Cheshire, Connecticut, and later on moved with his family to Hanover, New Hampshire, when he was young.
Early life Edward Nathaniel Brown was born on April 23, 1852, in Glenwood, Erie County, New York, to Myra Theresa (née Warren) and Nathaniel Howland Brush.
References External links Domhnall MacAuley on the History of Modern Biomedicine Research Group website
Kassirer spent much of his academic career at Tufts University School of Medicine, where he has been a professor since 1974 and currently holds the title of Distinguished Professor.
He was one of the first allied medical professionals to reach the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp, following its liberation in April 1945.
Education Ray has a bachelor's degree in microbiology from the University of Manchester and a PhD from Imperial College London where she studied Shigella flexneri.
During Noseworthy's tenure, Mayo Clinic's revenues increased to $12 billion and the hospital ranked No.
During the last two decades of his life he suffered from the after-effects of a car accident and later from bronchitis and heart failure.
Jerold Francis Lucey (March 26, 1926 – December 10, 2017) was an American pediatrician and journal editor.
His studies showed that slow growing isolates of toxoplasma were more resistant to treatment and if fast growing toxoplasma isolates were slowed by reducing the temperature, they also became more resistant to treatment with pyrimethamine.
There was reluctance among industry to investigate this drug further in trials because of the absence of a large market.
Career In 1965, Gillenwater became assistant professor in the Department of Urology at the University of Virginia.
He also argued against the ability of postpartum infections to be spread by the hands of physicians.
Biography Sorsby was born Arnold Sourasky in Bialystock, Poland, on 10 June 1900, the brother of Max and Maurice.
Nakamoto, M, Nalavadi, V, Epstein, MP, Narayanan, U, Bassell, GJ and Warren, ST: Fragile X mental retardation protein deficiency leads to spontaneous mGluR5-dependent internalization of AMPA receptors.
Career Grimley Evans worked with Donald Acheson before joining the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine as a lecturer.
His main research activities are on hereditary diffuse gastric cancer and hereditary lobular breast cancer associated with Cadherins disfunction.
Higher education and medical training Following graduation, Malani enrolled at the University of Michigan where she designed an independent curriculum in medical journalism.
She is a professor of medicine, oncology, molecular biology, and immunology at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
In the same year, he was both elected Hunterian professor with his lecture titled "The Investigation and Management of the Neurogenic Bladder", and appointed consultant urologist at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.
At the beginning of 2018, Nekhlyudov was elected as the inaugural scholar to participate in the National Cancer Institute (NCI)/AcademyHealth Healthcare Delivery Research Visiting Scholars Program.
In 2019, he received the Distinguished Scientist Award-Basic Domain from the American College of Cardiology.
He was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment, but was released in October 1913, pardoned by the president and reinstated in his profession.
Offices held Member of the Technical Committee and Deputy Commissioner of Department of Family Planning, Ministry of Health.
Chang, S, Bray, SM, Li, Z, Zarnescu, DC, He, C, Jin, P and Warren, ST: Identification of small molecules rescuing morphological, biochemical, and behavioral phenotypes of fragile X syndrome in Drosophila.
He has appeared frequently in public media to talk about screen exposure and the benefits of manual play (and other topics) in children.[1] Christakis has been instrumental in the revision of national guidelines on pediatric screen exposure.
He was elected a fellow of the American Council for High Blood Pressure Research and an honorary fellow of the Australian Blood Pressure Council.
Gottschalk Distinguished Lectureship in 1999, and the Hugh Davson award for Cell Biology in 2011, both from the American Physiological Society.
Comroe investigated topics including reflex control of breathing, rate and depth of breathing, and the effects of drugs and oxygen.
"Patents, profits & American medicine: Conflicts of interest in the testing & marketing of new drugs" (PDF).
While there, Epstein worked to understand the nature of Werner's syndrome, a genetic disease that causes premature aging.
He also is the head of the steering group for the INGUIDE Guideline Development Training & Certification Program.
Robert Weinberg, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was in the audience when Spandidos gave this talk, and later recalled that he had devised what he called "exactly the same" strategy to identify oncogenes in human tumors not long before Spandidos' talk.
As an undergraduate, Volkmar published or collected data for seven papers; his first publication (Rearing complexity affects branching of dendrites in the visual cortex of the rat) appeared in Science and earned him the Psi Chi national prize for research.
While Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Clinical Investigation, Varki made it the first major biomedical journal to be freely available on the web in 1996, presaging the general "Open Access" movement that came years later.
He currently directs 'The Comings Foundation': a private foundation (www.TheComingsFoundation.org) devoted to combatting climate change and advancing the Medical Sciences.
Career In 1991, Sacco co-authored a study investigating the high rate of stroke risk among African Americans.
He has also written about the negative impacts of the false claim that the MMR vaccine might cause autism, and is an outspoken advocate of mandatory influenza vaccination.
From 1966 until 1970 he was Professor of Metabolic Medicine at the Welsh National School of Medicine in Cardiff, and then Professor of Medicine until 1979.
Anil Aggrawal (Hindi: अनिल अग्रवाल, IAST: Anil Aggrawāl; born 17 August 1956) is a professor of forensic medicine at the Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi, India.
She previously held lectureships in journalist or science policy at the California Institute of Technology, Duke University, Stanford University, Vassar College, and Yale University.
Affiliations and fellowships In 2010 he was named a Fellow of the American Society of Neurorehabilitation.
Mapping the Cells in the Liver — Unchartered Subtypes and Heterogeneity, Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology, July 30, 2019 doi 10.1038/s41575-019-0192-0 Personal life Ray lives in London, England.
Research Lao is known for researching acupuncture and other forms of traditional Chinese medicine, such as Chinese herbal medicine.
In 2021, Stone officially stepped up as editor in chief of the American Journal of Infection Control following the retirement of Elaine Larson.
She was chairman of the executive committee, and from 1893, was president of the Woman's Alliance, which secured for Davenport a police matron, in 1890.
Parmley also co-authored with Stanton Glantz several papers on the health effects of passive smoking that were covered by the news media.
Education and career Blattner received his bachelor's degree in 1966 from Washington University in St.
He has an edited book titled "A History of Radionuclide Studies in the UK: 50th Anniversary of the British Nuclear Medicine".
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain: Stanton, Elizabeth Cady; Anthony, Susan B.; Gage, Matilda Joslyn (1881).
Education Poland received his BA in biology from Illinois Wesleyan University in 1977 where he was a member of Sigma Pi fraternity.
He is also Director, NHMRC Centre for Research Excellence in Transforming Gut Health and an NHMRC Leadership Fellow.
She served on the board of advisors of the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth College and the Institute of Human Virology at the University of Maryland, Baltimore.
Working with Carl Frederic Schmidt, he carried out generative research work on the mechanisms and control of breathing, identifying carotid and aortic chemoreceptors and their part in the regulation of breathing.
He gave in 1963 the Heath Clark lectures, which were published as Crisis in Communication (London, The Athlone Press, 1965).
Career When Cotton was recruited by Boston University to serve as the first Assistant Provost for Clinical Research and Director of the Office of Clinical Research in 1998, she was recruited from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School.
He was a key member of the Coalition for Gun Control which won the 1996 Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission's Community Human Rights award for its advocacy for gun law reform after the Port Arthur massacre in 1996.
Katz found that while regional anesthesia was successful in reducing the intensity of acute pain, there was not enough conclusive research to show that it preempted chronic pain.
Fortescue Fox's father was the seventh son of Quaker surgeon Joseph John Fox, who came from an unbroken line of Quaker doctors for five generations.
He was named the Harry Wallace Professor of Neonatology in 1995 and remained in that role until his retirement in 2009.
He has carried out numerous consultancies in the Developing World, particularly in Africa, India, Bosnia, China and St.
In 1999 he published work identifying specific myelin reactivity of these autoantibodies deposited in areas of myelin damage in MS brains.
There he taught and did research on the effects of insulin on hepatic glucose metabolism and on elucidating the enzymatic defect in McArdle's disease.
He worked with international organisations including the World Health Organization, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS Tuberculosis and Malaria to persuade them to incorporate harm reduction into their policies and strategies.
He has been recognised as an ISI Highly Cited Researcher, and received the Grimes Research Career Achievement Award from OHRI in 2015.
He was a strong advocate of treatment and training of the disabled war veterans, and became the first medical director of the Enham Village Centre, which opened in 1919.
William James Morton (July 3, 1845 – March 26, 1920) was a United States physician, an authority in electrotherapeutics.
Daniel Levy is an American cardiologist who is the director of the Framingham Heart Study at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, a division of the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
economist list of "Germany's most influential economists", reaching 8th and 11th position in 2017 and 2018, respectively, the highest among health economists.
When Daroff was ten years old he left public school and attended the Riverside Military Academy in Gainesville, Georgia.
136-139 « An apparatus for the use of breath sounds as a hypnagogic stimulus », American journal of psychiatry, 100, 1944, p.
She has authored over 170 peer-reviewed articles, two books, and a dozen invited papers and book chapters and more than 150 abstracts.
"The Care of the Insane in Farm Dwellings," Proceedings of the American Medico-Psychological Association (1899): 326-336.
Her doctoral research on patient-driven rehabilitation following a stroke developed an intervention designed especially for Māori and Pasifika.
He retired from his position as associate director of the IHV and director of its Division of Epidemiology and Prevention on January 31, 2016.
In 1993, he established the journal Obesity Research (now known as Obesity), and served as its editor-in-chief from then until 1997.
In 198?, Sadé was appointed Incumbent of the Felix and Sara Dumont Chair of Hearing Disorders Research at Tel Aviv University.
While there, she started Nature Genetics in 1992, Nature Structural Biology in 1994, and Nature Medicine in 1995.
References External links Stephen Leeder at the Sydney Medical School Stephen Leeder at The Conversation
Herman Stanton Bachelard (1929 – 12 September 2006) was a British neurochemist, editor-in-chief and neuroscience book writer.
Career Nekhlyudov joined the non-profit Harvard Vanguard Medical Associates in 1999 as a primary care physician and appointed Instructor at the Department of Population Medicine at Harvard Medical School.
Hitzenberger became politically active after the war and was vice-president of the Association of Austrian Medical Women for many years before she became president in 1974.
Joseph Stephen Alpert (born 1942 in Connecticut) is an American cardiologist and professor of medicine at the University of Arizona Sarver Heart Center.
He was a member of the editorial staff of The New England Journal of Medicine for over 25 years: associate editor (1922–1947), editor (1947–1967), and finally editor emeritus (1967 onwards).
For most of Herndon's academic career, from 1966 to 1989, he was senior associate dean for research and development at the medical school.
Since 2008, he has served as a professor in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering at the same university.
She has said that she was impressed by how quickly Singapore responded to SARS-CoV-2, which was likely informed by their experiences with the SARS epidemic years before.
She was the second vice-rector for academics from 1993 to 1996, when she became the vice-rector for academics.
After graduating from Dartmouth College in 1948, having studied zoology, he completed a doctor of medicine at New York University College of Medicine in 1952.
His great-uncle was a Governor of British Tobago and it was planned for Robley to become a West Indies planter but the uncle died and the plans to move to the West Indies were abandoned.
Günter Ollenschläger worked as a research pharmacist from 1975 until 1981, and as a university physician from 1983 until 1990, working in the fields of pharmacokinetics, tumor related malnutrition, and metabolism.
External links Works related to Woman of the Century/Cora Belle Brewster at Wikisource Cora Belle Brewster, 1859–?
He performed his surgical residency at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, and performed further training at the pediatric surgery at The Children's Hospital Medical Center in Boston.
Gillenwater married Shirley Brockman, also from Kingsport, in 1955, and they have three children Linda, Ann and Jay Merritt.
In 2022, he was elected a member of the Academia Europaea and more recently was awarded the 2025 Grand Prix Européen by the Fondation Recherche Alzheimer.
From 1908, he served as demonstrator of bacteriology and comparative pathology at the Royal Institute of Public Health in London, before he was employed by the Imperial Health Office in Berlin in 1910.
He saw disease just as it was; theories never distorted, nor did prejudice obscure it: all was clear and perfectly distinct from every other object.
At the age of 16 he enrolled at the University of Chicago, but after one year transferred to the University of Pennsylvania, to be closer to home.
In 2001 Volberding left the SF General Hospital to become chief medical officer at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, at which time he also became vice chairman of the department of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF).
He also served as a tenured full professor at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington.
He has extensively researched the Streptococcus pyogenes strain AP53, focusing on bacterial and mouse transgenesis and genetics.
While at McGill, he was an attending physician at the Jewish General Hospital and McGill University Health Centre.
He was also the editor of the American Journal of Insanity, the precursor to the American Journal of Psychiatry.
After discovering that no single institution had treated enough patients with bile duct cancer to collect sufficient data on this rare disease, Pawlik pooled data from researchers and doctors around the world to better guide care and provide treatment options.
Lock was a co-founder, with Edward Huth, of the Vancouver Group (later the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors), and a former president of the European Association of Science Editors.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, he was a board-certified anatomic, clinical and forensic pathologist, and a private forensic pathology consultant.
Education Lao was first trained in acupuncture at the Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine.
Research focus Sell's laboratory focuses on the role of the mTOR protein kinase in cellular senescence, and in 2019 his research group showed that the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin can extend the lifespan of human cells and decrease the appearance of aged cells in human skin.
Relman was the only person to have been president of the American Federation for Clinical Research, the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians.
Life Patrick Walsh grew up in Akron, Ohio, received his undergraduate and medical training at Case Western Reserve University.
Sampath Parthasarathy is a former Associate Dean of Research and current Professor and Florida Hospital Chair in Cardiovascular Science in the College of Medicine at the University of Central Florida.
Until 2020, he was the National Director for Dementia Research for the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) in the UK.
Following graduation he visited Paris and then did a tour of both Italy and Spain before returning to Edinburgh to set up as a physician.
He was the William Patterson Timmie Professor of Human Genetics and the Charles Howard Candler Chair of Human Genetics.
In January 2008, Cameron reported a very large surgical series, the 30-year history of surgical treatment in 372 cases of Marfan syndrome at Johns Hopkins Hospital.
He became a full professor in 1977 and was appointed Kleiderer-Pezold Professor of Biochemistry in 1982.
In 1873, he moved to India with his family and lived in Jabalpur, Calcutta (now Kolkata), and Darjeeling.
His postgraduate training was interrupted by military service; Brody became a captain in the Army Medical Corps in 1946, and served as a consultant in the Nuremberg trials.
Publications and fringe claims Walach has conducted studies examining elements of complementary and alternative medicine, and developed the Freiburg Mindfulness Inventory.
Awards and honours Grimley Evans was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences (FMedSci) in 1998 and was knighted in the 1997 Birthday Honours.
In 1815, he then went to London, where he attended anatomy classes at St Thomas's Hospital, and enrolled in the United Hospitals of St.
Lustberg previously served as the Medical Director of Supportive Care at Ohio State's Comprehensive Cancer Center and President of the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer.
Ian Douglas-Wilson (12 May 1912 – 15 October 2013) was a British physician who was editor of The Lancet, a United Kingdom-based medical journal, from 1965 to 1976.
In 1963 he joined the Brompton Hospital as house officer, and later became a member of the Royal College of Physicians of both London and Edinburgh.
His doctoral thesis was an early treatise on the mechanism underlying the gallop rhythm in heart failure.
ISBN 0387713107 Behavioral Economics and Public Health, edited with Christina Roberto: Oxford University Press.
He became a Professor and Director of Educational Research and Scholarship in the UBC Faculty of Medicine in 2010, and is Associate Director and Scientist in the Centre for Health Education Scholarship (CHES).
Career From 1983 to 1993, Rippe worked at the Exercise Physiology and Nutrition Laboratory at the University of Massachusetts Medical School.
Career He was editor-in-chief of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute and has been on the Editorial Board of Cancer Research and statistical consultant to the New England Journal of Medicine.
He practised as a pulmonary specialist in Switzerland for eleven years (1903–1914) first at Davos and then in Arosa, as director of the Villa Gentiana, a sanatorium for English-speaking patients.
Education A 1976 graduate of the BUSM, Cotton completed infectious disease fellowships at the National Cancer Institute in 1984 and National Institute of Health in 1985.
She is the Ronda Stryker and William Johnston Professor of Global Health in the Department of Epidemiology at the Harvard T.H.
Archived 2014-01-22 at the Wayback Machine via PBS Newshour, Feb 10, 2010 (interviews Schatzberg and Allen Frances on some of the main changes proposed in the DSM-5 draft)
Career In 2008, Palermo was named a fellow of the American Psychological Association (APA), recognized by Division 54, the Society of Pediatric Psychology.
ISBN 019939833X Social Epidemiology of Sleep, edited with Dustin Duncan & Susan Redline, Oxford University Press.
He began the study of medicine at Rush Medical College in Chicago and, after a year, returned to the University of Michigan Medical College graduating with an M.D.
In 2019, Kibbe was the recipient of a Distinguished Service Award from her alma mater, the University of Chicago.
Recognition In 2017, Munafò received the Presidents' Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychological Knowledge, an award given annually by the British Psychological Society.
Herbert Davis Chalke (15 June 1897 – 8 October 1979) was a British physician known for his work in the fields of social medicine and medical history.
Appointments Volkmar was appointed director of the Yale Child Study Center in 2006, succeeding Alan E Kazdin, and served until 2014.
He was an instructor at New York Polyclinic Hospital, and a consultant at Mount Sinai Hospital, the Montefiore Home for Chronic Disease, and Manhattan State Hospital.
Shikora's Publications References External links Scott Shikora page in Brigham Women's Hospital Directory Scott Shikora at Brigham Women's Hospital
Statement to the House Committee on Veterans' Affairs, archives.democrats.veterans.house.gov; accessed April 20, 2015.
Career After completing a residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, Majerus worked for the National Heart Institute, conducting research on fatty acid biosynthesis in E.
She was returning home from a gastrointestinal cancer research meeting in San Francisco, California.
Career During her tenure at OSU, Lustberg has focused on researching "physicians’ and patients’ perspectives on cancer survivorship care, prevention of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, and early detection of chemotherapy induced cardiotoxicity in breast cancer survivors".
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery® search results for Goldwyn (700) Bloomberg Businessweek: Robert Goldwyn Executive Profile and Biography
The same study found that the period during which women had the highest chance of conceiving lasted six days, including the five days before ovulation and the day of the ovulation itself.
In 2005 he wrote "Doctors in society: medical professionalism in a changing world", an inquiry into the future of medical professionalism, for the Royal College of Physicians.
His father, a clergyman and schoolmaster who became the head of Lowestoft College in East Anglia, taught him classical languages, and Clegg gained scholarships at Westminster School and Trinity College, Cambridge.
From 2005 to 2010, he was a professor of biomedical sciences at the University of Central Florida, where he was also the chairman of the Center for Lifestyle Medicine.
Castellino (also known as Frank Castellino) is an American biochemist and professor at University of Notre Dame.
Walsh is an American urologist, researcher and writer, best known for developing "the anatomic approach to radical prostatectomy", involving nerve-sparing techniques which reduced the likelihood of impotence and urinary incontinence.
The group studied 25 districts in Lima and gathered information about which genetic strains are likely to be drug-resistant.
In 1967 he became the chairman of the medical genetics division in the pediatrics department of UC San Francisco.
In 2020, Sacco was named editor-in-chief of the Stroke journal and the inaugural recipient of the Edgar J.
Career Mitchell joined the faculty at the University of Missouri as an assistant professor of medicine and was the recipient of their 1991 Distinguished Service Award.
He graduated from Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons in 1985 with a Medical Doctorate.
She started working at Nature Reviews in 2010 and has worked in Nature Reviews Rheumatology and also Nature Reviews Gastroenterology & Hepatology where she became the chief editor in 2014.
In 1998, Bhakdi and his team of colleagues put forward the "Mainz hypothesis" that atherosclerosis is only caused monocausally by the lack of removal of LDL.
Miller was nominated because after leaving London and embarking again to North Carolina together with Eastchurch, they had to stop temporarily at Nevis Island in the Caribbean.
Tytler expressed sympathy for the French Revolution of 1789 and called on the British not to pay taxes.
Farewell oration, including a short narrative of his arrest and imprisonment in the Birmingham dungeon, 1798.
Works by James Parkinson at Project Gutenberg Works by or about James Parkinson at the Internet Archive Works by James Parkinson at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)
He was elected assistant-physician to St Bartholomew's Hospital 20 November 1678, and was appointed physician in ordinary to James II.
The bishop was an enthusiastic botanist who derived great pleasure from his garden, which rivaled Hortus Botanicus Leiden among early European botanical gardens outside Italy.
Dubbed "The Cliffs", it overlooked the Schuylkill River near Gray's Ferry, just upriver from the Bartram estate.
Methods Barsalou's practice was influenced by Alchemical practice in addition to contemporary practices such as bloodletting.
Edinburgh burgh hosted a banquet for the queen's brother, Ulrik, Duke of Holstein, on 2 May 1598 at the house of Ninian MacMorran at Riddle's court.
He collaborated with Frederik Ruysch on the first volume of Jan Commelijn's "Horti Medici Amstelodamensis Rariorum" which appeared in 1697 and dealt mainly with plants from the East and West Indies.
Also a zoologist, Ernst Hofmann trained as an apothecary and later became the curator of the Naturalienkabinett in Stuttgart.
The book contains a family register recording births, marriages, and deaths; his own death was noted in the ledger by one of his children.
There is an entry in the 1794 directory of London and Westminster and the borough of Southwark – James & Were – British Wine Manufacturers, Finsbury Place.
Works Houghton edited a periodical, A Collection of Letters for the Improvement of Husbandry & Trade, published as two vols.
He had a series of etchings of his paintings created which was nearly complete at the time of his death.
The Oxford Dictionary of National Biography states that William Sole was born in 1741 in Little Thetford, Cambridgeshire, However, evidence suggest that he was born in 1739 and Baptised on 28 September in Witchford, Cambridgeshire.
After acting for many years as apothecary to Bethlehem Hospital, London, and obtaining a practical knowledge of nervous diseases, Haslam was dismissed by the governors in 1816 after the publication of the Report of the Select Committee on Madhouses.
MacCartney sent copies of verses made at court, including the King's own lines about William Fowler, a poet who served Anne of Denmark as her secretary, and promised a verse made about the Treasurer, Walter Stewart of Blantyre.
Watercolours of 420 plants were prepared during the period 1686–1709 by a number of artists, mainly Johan and Maria Moninckx, with minor contributions from Helena Herolt and Alida Withoos.
Family Source: Joseph Fox (1758–1832) was the son of Joseph Fox (1729–1785) and Elisabeth Hingston (1733–1792).
He returned to England in 1753, proceeding to Bath, and after a series of elaborate experiments conducted in public he went to London, where he established himself in practice.
He is noted for co-founding the McKesson Corporation, the largest health care company in North America and ninth-largest company in the United States.
Johnson knew little of Levet's background, but he seemed to cherish the awkward, unpolished man nonetheless.
André was captured near Tarrytown, New York, on Saturday, September 23, by three Westchester militiamen.
In Niagara-on-the-Lake, an economic decline that began in the late 19th century left the town with plenty of its early buildings, no "unsightly factories, warehouses, or tracts of undistinguished workers' housing", and a "pre-industrial, upper-class streetscape".
By 14 December 1703, he was at the Golden Fleece, on the corner of Little Eastcheap in Gracechurch Street, London.
Joseph Barsalou built on his traditional knowledge of herbs with an introduction to medicine and philosophy reading Galen, Aristotle and Pythagoras.
Houghton also published in 1693 a sixpenny sheet, containing An Account of the Acres and Houses, with the proportional tax … of each county in England and Wales (reprinted in Somers Tracts, ed.
Erculiani's understanding of elements through her pharmaceutical work shines through this explanation in particular, and also shows her understanding of the four major pillars of Paracelus's theory of medicine.
His ‘English Dispensatory’ (1721), of which a fourth edition appeared in 1722 and a twelfth in 1749, contains a complete account of the materia medica and of therapeutics, and many of the prescriptions contained in it were popular.
Claude Joseph Geoffroy (8 August 1685 in Paris – 9 March 1752 in Paris) was the brother of Étienne François Geoffroy.
However, in 1783 his house in Panton Street caught fire, his collections of insects and many of his plants were destroyed, and the people narrowly escaped with their lives.
His work was primarily watercolour landscapes, for which he toured to the Lake District, along with oil history paintings.
After Charas' contradiction on the nature of snake venom, Redi experimentally demonstrated that that venom was poisonous only when it enters the bloodstream via a bite, and that the fang contains venom in the form of yellow fluid.
He was a great benefactor to the Apothecaries' Company, having been ‘a principal means for the procuring of the said company to be made a corporation,’ and for the purchase of Apothecaries' Hall, where a massive marble bust of him is preserved.
His father was Richard Mathews, a yeoman of Kinton near Chirbury, said by Richard Williams Morgan to have been from an "old and respectable family".
This was criticized by others and Tachenius believed that his critic was Helwig Dieterich, resulting in polemics between the two (and others) which went on until 1656.
He assigned chemical symbols to the seven metals corresponding to the known celestial bodies at the time, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, and Moon respectively.
A Letter to the Governors of Bethlehem Hospital, containing an Account of their Management for the last Twenty Years, 1818.
His renowned expertise led him to be summoned as witness in various high-profile trials and committees, such as the Richard Arkwright patent trials that persisted throughout the 1780s.
In September 1595 MacCartney wrote to Bowes about the Catholic earls, with the news that Elizabeth Douglas, Countess of Erroll was now allowed by James VI to rebuild Old Slains Castle, and the Earl of Huntly would be able to do the same at Huntly Castle if stonemasons were available.
The parties continues, with guests that included Queen Victoria’s father and the French diplomat Talleyrand, among many others.
According to the chronicle Shoku Nihongi (797 AD), En no Ozunu was banished to the island of Izu Ōshima on June 26, 699: On hinoto-ushi (sexagenary "fire ox") day [24th day of the 5th month, Mommu 3 (June 26, 699 AD)], En no Kimi Ozunu was banished to Izu no Shima.
In 1629, the Court of Assistants of the Society of the Apothecaries decided that she would be allowed to supervise her second husband and ensure that he acquired the skills considered necessary by the guild.
The work is thought to have inspired similar works, such as the Japanese medicinal work "Honzo Zufu" (1828) by Iwasaki Tsunemasa, and "Somoku-dzusetsu" (1856) by Yokusai Iinuma.
James MacCartney was a Scottish medical practitioner and apothecary in Edinburgh in the 1590s who collected information for the English diplomat Robert Bowes.
The letter to Berzevczy was framed in response to an accusation he made concerning her writings on the Biblical Flood.
By Lucas's efforts a fund was raised by voluntary subscription, and a suit commenced on 7 November 1744 against the Aldermen in the court of king's bench.
In common with his colleagues Field afterwards received the thanks of the corporation and a piece of plate.
Discovery of morphine On 1 October 1799, Friedrich Sertürner began there an apprenticeship for four years.
He became a preacher in the Church of Scotland and studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, after which he was apprenticed to a ship's surgeon for one year.
Schaw appears to have been a physician serving the women of the court, and was mentioned in William Dunbar's poem Of a Dance in the Quenis Chamber.
Ephraim Reinhold Seehl of Bromley was buried at Poplar, undoubtedly at Poplar Chapel (St Matthias Old Church) on 6 September 1783, according to St Dunstan's, Stepney, Parish Registers.
Thomas Monro] and Apothecary of Bethlem Hospital upon the Evidence before the House of Commons on Madhouses, 1816; Haslam's observations are on pp.
Court apothecary Chase was a Freeman of the Apothecaries’ Company and was its Master from June 1688 to September 1689.
This privilege was abolished in 1873, after which all pharmacists were to be formally trained as such, an education which was opened for women in 1891, the first graduate being Märtha Leth.
He may have supplied blue azurite in three grades to the king's painter working at Stirling in July 1506.
It then had several owners before it was acquired by Lord Duveen who presented it to the British National Gallery in 1934.
Petiver visited the Netherlands in 1711 on behalf of Sloane to study the collections of the Dutch entomologist Paul Hermann.
Career Thomson was active in the 1540s and supplied medicines to Regent Arran, his daughter Barbara, Lady Gordon, and Cardinal Beaton.
Bourdelin worked with Samuel Cottereau du Clos to analyze mineral waters (sampling ninety sources from 68 locations in France and the analysis was published in 1675), materials from plants and animals.
In the beginning, the company was involved in the wholesale of botanical-based drugs, including herbs and vegetable extracts.
From 1706 he worked at this father's pharmacy in Naumburg and from 1710 he went back to Leipzig and worked with his brother.
He had sold some of them to a private party, and these would later be purchased by the Academy of Medicine in Toronto.
In 1589, she became the second wife of Georg I, Landgrave of Hesse-Darmstadt and moved to Darmstadt with most of her children.
He discovered the presence of magnesia in sea-water, and researched the manufacture of Prussian blue (invented by Johann Jacob Diesbach, in 1706), publishing on these topics in the Philosophical Transactions.
Around 1830, Chester Harding painted a portrait of Webster, now in the collection of the Massachusetts Historical Society.
Life He was apprenticed to an apothecary, and afterwards practised medicine as an apothecary in London.
Professional life Apothecary Apothecary shops are a place that is able to provide medications and remedies to diseases.
The most important of his works, Versuch einer Naturgeschichte von Liefland, is one of the earliest descriptions of the nature of Livonia.
Career In April 1598, Edinburgh burgh hosted a banquet for Anne of Denmark's brother, Ulrik, Duke of Holstein, at the house of Ninian MacMorran at Riddle's court.
Parr and John Welch owned a slave-ship called Briton and in 1762 it was sent on a slave voyage to the Kingdom of Whydah in West Africa.
From left to right in the picture are Thomas, born 1740 and dressed in skirts as was typical for small boys until they were breeched, Henrietta (later mother of the economist Thomas Robert Malthus), Anna Maria and Richard.
Her response was formatted so as to demolish such a criticism in her genuine belief in the importance of free and frequent critical thought.
En no Gyōja was conferred the posthumous title Jinben Daibosatsu (Great Bodhisattva Jinben, 神変大菩薩) at a ceremony held in 1799 to commemorate the one-thousandth year of his passing.
It is questionable whether he was fully qualified as a physician; and Charles Roach Smith wrote that his political advocacy ruined his professional prospects.
It remained in the ownership of Richard Robert Graham, depicted on the far right of the painting, at least until his death in 1816.
His father was court apothecary to Charles II, and James II, having succeeded his own father in 1666, who was court apothecary to Charles I and, after the Restoration, to Charles II.
In many cases, the species to be moved had already been reclassified numerous times with several proposed names but Kuntze appears to have disregarded these classifications and simply reclassified the basionym.
Explanatory notes References Citations Bibliography External links En no Ozunu – History of Japan Database
"Les grands voyages de Jean Mocquet, apothicaire du "Cabinet des Singularitez" de Louis XIII aux Tuileries".
He published an account of his travels in 1617, Voyages en Afrique, Asie, Indes orientales et occidentales.
Charas was inducted as member of the Académie des sciences (the French Academy of Sciences) in 1692 at the age of 73.
He became the royal apothecary to King Louis XIV, but moved to London to avoid persecution as a Protestant Huguenot.
His father's alcoholism worsened after her death, and the youth took on the responsibility of supporting his father and younger sister.
Political allegiance In the 1745 Jacobite uprising the Jacobite army under Prince Charles Edwart Stuart defeated a Government army under the command of General Sir John Cope at the Battle of Prestonpans.
In 1315, Florence was forced by Uguccione della Faggiuola (the military officer controlling the town) to grant an amnesty to those in exile, including Dante.
One of his predecessors at the Scottish court was John Mosman, who worked for James IV and Margaret Tudor.
Legacy Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site The Charles River Dam Bridge, a.k.a.
He was probably related to "Jhone Clavie" or "Clavye" (died 1586), a candlemaker who supported Mary, Queen of Scots in the Marian Civil War.
He was allowed bail or caution for future loyalty at £1,000 Scots, guaranteed by the textile merchant Robert Jousie and Barclay.
That may have been because it was the custom of the time to add the name of his father after death, or because "Dr.
Over the next decade he worked in apothecaries at Kassel, Frankfurt and Darmstadt, finally returning to Mainz in 1812 to qualify as an apothecary and settle as a private scholar.
In January 1503 he was paid £34 Scots for a year's supplies, and in June 1504 just over £37 for apothecary goods supplied to James IV over four months.
From 1718 to 1720 he was Garde des marchands-apothicaires in Paris, then later served as inspecteur de pharmacie at the Hôtel-Dieu.
Known For Attempting to establish clear material descriptions of the properties of a substance, such as density and melting point.
Enoch Salisbury instead asserts that Mathews was "neither a Salopian nor a Welshman as some have thought, but a native of Monmouthshire, and born, it is believed, not far from Pontypool".
During the summer of 1778 he met Peggy Shippen, the 18-year-old daughter of Judge Edward Shippen IV, a Loyalist sympathizer who had done business with the British while they occupied the city; Peggy had been courted by Major John André during the occupation.
The masque was produced by George Villiers, Marquess of Buckingham in celebration of his marriage to Lady Katherine Manners, first staged at Burley-on-the-Hill, and again at Belvoir Castle and Windsor Castle.
"The more refined studies of our speculative adepts in philosophy", he says, "have let them into the secret that the small-pox and many other diseases are propagated by means of animalcula hatched from eggs lodged in the hairs, pores, &c.
Spreul's lawyer was Lockhart; those who did not recognise the courts generally did not employ lawyers.
The authenticity of the museum is primarily in the use of materials, as the name is ahistorical (the term "apothecary" is anachronistic for the period represented by the museum) and the practice involved other activities.
His wife became so financially burdened that she sold many effects of the mansion, and began to take in boarders.
Fewster, a friend and professional colleague of Edward Jenner, played an important role in the discovery of the smallpox vaccine.
Since 1875, a collection of his mosses has been kept at the British Museum of Natural History (250 specimens in 5 fascicles).
On November 8, 1810, the English schooner "Alarm" arrived in the Port of Buenos Aires from Guernsey, bringing goods that included wine and gin to the consignment of Narciso Marull.
The college did not, however, question the quality of the medicines she prepared or her credentials as an apothecary.
Some of this communication was effected through the services of Joseph Stansbury, a Philadelphia merchant.
At the instigation of the author of a monograph on Timmia, Guy Brassard, a mountain on the Arctic Ellesmere Island was named "Mount Timmia" in honour of Timm.
As a result of this work, the taxonomic records are full of vast defunct genera in which not a single species name is currently accepted.
He later started a public course in his laboratory in 1738, in 1742 he was appointed experimental demonstrator of chemistry at the Jardin du Roi in Paris.
Professor Johann Hedwig of Leipzig later named a genus of moss Timmia after him, including the species he found at Malchin in Mecklenburg, Timmia megapolitana.
His work on general chemistry was translated into English and published as "A general system of chemistry : theoretical and practical.
One can get some sense of Johnson's genuine feeling for his boarder—whom the renowned poet and author had taken in after Levet made a bad marriage in which he was hoodwinked—in the encomium that Johnson wrote eulogising his old friend.
He studied in Exeter with Francis Towne, to whom he was also a friend and patron, and his watercolour style was based on Towne's.
Deutsches Apothekerbuch: nach neuern und richtigern Kenntnissen in der Pharmakologie und Pharmacie bearbeitet Band 2.
Robert Henryson complained in 1575 that he was still owed money, and the price of a chest of gray sugar and a barrel of olive oil from Thomson's estate.
With Bernhard Meyer and Johannes Scherbius, he was co-author of "Oekonomisch-technische Flora der Wetterau", a publication in which the three men described various botanical genera and species.
Joachim Christian Timm (7 December 1734 – 3 February 1805) was a German apothecary, mayor of Malchin, and a botanist with a particular interest in cryptograms.
The College of Physicians Reeve's preparations were purchased by medical practitioners such as Arnold and Gerard Boate, for resale to their patients.
Support for the phlogiston theory Bibliography Works by Neumann Disquisitio De Ambra Grysea, Dresden, 1736.
In 1753 he proved the chemical element bismuth to be distinct from lead, becoming the official discoverer of the element.
In July 1610, Rumler and his wife were naturalized as English denizens at the same time as other members of the queen's household; Dorothea Silking and her sister "Engella Seelken" from Gustrow, Katherine Benneken from Garlstorf, and Martin Schöner.
Thomas Thomson (died 1572) was a Scottish apothecary in Edinburgh who served the court of Mary, Queen of Scots.
Elizabeth Gooking Greenleaf (November 11, 1681 – November 11, 1762) was the first female apothecary in the Thirteen Colonies.
The Political Graveyard Plan of Say Burial Ground Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine, at 3rd and Arch Streets in Philadelphia Watercolor of grave marker
In October 1643 the Regiment was engaged in the defence and ensuing siege of Basing House, Hampshire, by the Parliamentarians.
Life Joachim Christian Timm, the son of tobacconist Matthias Ernst Timm (1704–1779), was born in Wangerin in Farther Pomerania, Prussia (now in Poland) and attended school there.
Work In 1611, the bishop, who was already quite ill, commissioned Besler to compile a codex of the plants growing in his garden, a task which Besler took sixteen years to complete, the bishop dying shortly before the work was published in 1613.
These gardens had been started in 1596 and designed by Besler's colleague, Joachim Camerarius the Younger (1534–1598), a physician and botanist.
In 1732, shortly after the death of Isabella, he was married again, on this occasion to Christine Catharina Pfaffenreuther, daughter of a town official.
The other members included William Gregson, John Dobson, his cousin John Parr, Thomas Hodgson, Thomas Staniforth, George Case, Samuel Shaw, John Backhouse and James Caruthers.
It was operated by a series of successive owners, most of whom had apprenticed under the preceding owner.
Redford Webster (June 18, 1761 – August 31, 1833) was an apothecary, town official, and state legislator in Boston, Massachusetts.
Career He served as director and controller of the public schools in Philadelphia from 1860 to 1869.
The exterior decorations and embellishments are a vernacular commingling of various styles, including Palladian revival entrance, wood trim, and clapboard cladding, and Italianate tripartite facade of display windows flanking the entrance and separated by pilasters.
He is also referred to by the name En no Gyōja (役 行者; Japanese pronunciation: [en no ɡʲoꜜː.(d)ʑa, eꜜn no ɡʲoː.(d)ʑa], lit.
He was among the first chemists, along with Samuel Cottereau du Clos, to serve in the French Academy of Sciences at the time of its founding in 1666, chosen by Jean-Baptiste Colbert on behalf of Louis XIV.
His grandfather was also Edward Parr, of Haysom in Rainford, of a family settled there as small landowners in the 15th century, established in Liverpool as merchants and shipowners by the late 17th century.
Early life Chase was the eldest son of John Chase of Littlebrook, Kent and his wife Elizabeth Soane, daughter of Dr Thomas Soane, canon of Windsor.
He acknowledged the authorship, was voted guilty, and committed to Newgate Prison, where he remained until 21 June, when the House of Commons rose.
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
It is based on the medical lexicon of Bartolomeo Castelli of Messina (died 1607), published at Basel in 1628, and went through eleven editions, of which the last two appeared respectively in 1794 and 1811 (greatly revised).
Before this time, bismuth-containing minerals were frequently misidentified as either lead, tin, or antimony ores.
Between 1863 and 1866, he worked as clerk in a Berlin business and traveled through central Europe and Italy.
Life Haslam was born in London, and trained as an apothecary at the United Borough Hospitals, and (briefly) in Edinburgh where he attended medical classes in 1785 and 1786.
Biography Narciso Marull was born in Cassà de la Selva (Catalonia), son of Juan Manuel Marull and Isabel Torrent.
They were painted when the fraktur tradition in Pennsylvania was at its height, and accordingly they bear its imprint, as well as the influence of Christian devotional prints and illustrated Bibles popular during the period.
References External links Ottonis Tachenij Hippocrates chimicus, per ignem & aquam methodo inaudita nouissimi salis viperini antiquissima fundamenta ostendens (1697) Biography
Helwig Dieterich Latinized as Helvicus Dietericus (24 June 1601 – 13 December 1655) was a German physician and chemist.
He accompanied his father to England, and was appointed apothecary to Anne of Denmark, queen of James I.
Although several statements and episodes of it have been deemed unreliable on the basis of modern research, an earlier account of Dante's life and works had been included in the Nuova Cronica of the Florentine chronicler Giovanni Villani.
His collections of Psychidae, Sesiidae, Tortricidae, Tineidae and Pterophoridae are held by Natural History Museum, London.
Renward Cysat (Cusatus; 1545–1614) was an apothecary, advocate, cartographer and city councillor of Lucerne.
Thomas Were (a Quaker) is also named in this agreement, regarding a property on the west side of Finsbury Place at the corner of Ropemaker's Street in the Parish of St Luke in the County of Middlesex.
He was attended by his three children, and possibly by Gemma Donati, and by friends and admirers he had in the city.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Goodwin, Gordon (1889).
This was due not only to the preparation of new salts, but also to an increasing ability to distinguish between sodium and potassium compounds, and to a generalization of the concept so as to include many substances, such as the alums and vitriols (i.e., sulfates), that had been previously excluded.
Early life He was admitted to Merchant Taylors' School in 1783, and was then described as born on 16 October 1769.
Denig's book was published in 1990 as The Picture-Bible of Ludwig Denig: A Pennsylvania German Emblem Book.
In 1719 he published a scurrilous ‘Examination’ of John Woodward's ‘State of Physick and Diseases.’ A reply, entitled ‘An Account of Dr.
She was a co-author of the Winckelbouck, in which, from 1751, she described all her medical recipes.
Edward Parr (26 February 1718 - February 1768) was an English slave trader, apothecary and merchant of Liverpool.
There is however no evidence that he was an apothecary and the confusion is due to his father John Doody (1616–1680) and his namesake grandson, John Doody (1687–1753).
It is decorated with three coats of arms on the front, has ram's heads as handles on either side, and bears an inscription "CHARLES ANGIBAVD ME APPRE ET ORDINAIRE DV ROI A PARIS 1678".
In the year of 1759, he published another short essay on smallpox, Reasons against an opinion that a person infected with the Small-pox may be cured by Antidote without incurring the Distemper.
Therefore; although he remained in prison for two years until his friends broke him out, his execution was avoided.
Biography George Charles Garnier was born on 19 October 1739 in Westminster, the son of George Garnier and Frances Hopkins.
He held substantial tracts in upstate New York, Oxford, Maine, and in East Cambridge, and speculated in both domestic and foreign money markets.
His elder brother John Drummond 10th of Lennoch and 3rd of Megginch was Member of Parliament for Perthshire.
John Aubrey took an interest in the horoscope for Thomas Hobbes on which Bernard collaborated with John Gadbury.
He received a doctorate in 1647 and became a physician in Venice while also making studies on chemicals such as silica, and the effect of soap on oils.
1795, including speeches of Citizens Binns, Thelwall, Jones.’ ‘Oration at the Great Room in Brewer Street on General Washington,’ 1796; new edition, with alterations, in 1825, when Jones wrote to George Canning asking for his subscription to the reprint.
He collaborated with Berlin botanists Alexander Braun (1805-1877) and Paul Ascherson (1834-1913) and produced a revision of the Rubus species in Germany.
At the end of the 1750s he moved to Malchin to manage the apothecary business of Georg Heinrich Kruger and his successors.
A new Black Guelph government was installed, and Cante dei Gabrielli da Gubbio was appointed podestà of the city.
Conyers was present at the excavation in 1679 of the remains of a supposed elephant from a gravel bed at Battlebridge (King's Cross).
Eleonore of Württemberg (also called Eleanore of Hesse-Damstadt, 1552 – 1618) was a German noblewoman who published a treatise of medicinal remedies.
Armeston was the son of Thomas Armeston (died 1640) of Burbage and his wife Anne Replingham, daughter of Edward Replingham of Warwickshire.
During the Great Plague, Garencières claimed to have a secret cure, and that nineteen of the twenty patients he had attended had recovered.
A branch of the family including a John Mosman and his son Robert Mosman was recorded in February 1490 in connection with their tenancy of the lands of "Easter Gledstanis".
ed., very much improved 1719 Digital edition by the University and State Library Düsseldorf References "Quincy, John" .
Later known as Binnend the estate lies near Burntisland but its associated village went into decline from the 1890s and was fully abandoned in 1954.
In the historical fantasy novel Teito Monogatari by Hiroshi Aramata the protagonist Yasunori Kato claims to be a descendant of En no Gyōja.
After assuring himself that the electors of Dublin "were warmed with the same sentiments in which he left them," he obtained a personal interview with the king in order to petition for pardon, and being favourably received was enabled to return to Dublin, 15 March 1761, on a nolle prosequi.
Mathews is recorded as living at Bishop's Castle from at least 1599 to 1611, including during the later heraldic visitation of Shropshire, though his letter from 1615 indicates that he lived at the nearby village of Snead.
He changed the names of nearly 30000 taxa in his three-volume treatise, 2,226 page total, Revisio Generum Plantarum (1891-1898).
393 (PDF, 4 pages) London's immigrant apothecaries, 1600-1800, L G Matthews, Med Hist, July 1974, vol.18(3), p.
Houghton first noticed the potato plant as an agricultural vegetable, and that turnips were eaten by sheep.
In 1640 Joseph Barsalou was asked to treat Antonio Barberini, nephew of Pope Urban VIII and the Legate of Avignon who suffered from a fever on a visit to Avignon in the south of France.
He denounced Protestantism and converted to Catholicism after which he was declared innocent on 25 February 1689.
He came from a wealthy family, which owned many estates in Exeter, one of which he inherited in 1825.
First he traded by the Ship Tavern in St Bartholomew Lane, St Bartholomew-by-the-Exchange, behind the Royal Exchange.
In May 1601 he supplied plasters, oil, and liniments to James VI who had hurt his arm, and in the same month provided medicines for Anne of Denmark and Prince Charles.
This guild had the right to enter and investigate the premises of anyone exercising any part of "the Art or Mystery of Apothecaries" in the city of London and its environs, and to decide whether they were competent.
After his death, his collections went to his sister Jane Woodstock and were purchased by Sir Hans Sloane for £4000, and some of it is now in the Natural History Museum in London.
When General Tam Dalyell came to Kilmarnock in the year 1667, a party of soldiers were sent to Paisley, and took Mr Spreul prisoner, merely because he would not tell them where his father was.
He enthusiastically collected plants of all kinds, especially cryptogams, primarily in the Malchin area.
When they disobeyed, he bound them using sorcery." In spite of this incident, it seems that the Court continued to highly evaluate the herbal knowledge of Ozunu's school, since Vol.
During his time in Pennsylvania, Craigie met and fathered a child, Mary ("Polly") Allen, with a Philadelphia Quaker woman whose family forbade her to marry Craigie, a non-Quaker.
This led to no easily detectable rise in the rate or distribution of patient deaths when he was on duty.
She is responsible for at least 11 murders committed at the Fundació La Caritat in Olot between August 2009 and October 2010, with all her victims being elderly patients aged 80–96.
As a result, the venue for the upcoming trial was moved to San Angelo, and that new jury would be selected.
Because of his physique, Joyner had little success with women and was not popular in the neighborhood, with some friends and acquaintances suspecting him of being homosexual, which he vehemently denied.
She was held in custody at the West Virginia Regional Jail and Correctional Facility until her sentencing.
On 27 June 2023, the Second Assize Court of Milan retried Cazzaniga for the murder of Domenico Brasca, for which he was found guilty and sentenced to a second life term.
She was arrested and imprisoned for fraud and theft in 1915 for stealing valuables and posing as injured men to receive funds.
Santosh Pol (born 4 November 1974) is an Indian quack doctor who confessed to killing six people from 2003 to 2016 in the town of Dhom, Maharashtra, allegedly by injecting them with succinylcholine, a neuro-muscular paralytic drug.
Cream claimed Gardner had threatened to poison herself when he had not agreed to perform the abortion, and that she had written him a letter in which she named the businessman as the father.
Cream: The Hunt for a Victorian Era Serial Killer, Harper Avenue (HarperCollins Canada), June 1, 2021.
Despite initially claiming responsibility for 15 murders and saying that he had done to release them from their misery, Hooijmaijers later retracted the confession, instead claiming that he was guilty only of administering non-fatal doses without permission.
She ultimately pleaded guilty to the murders of James Bartoe, 55; Gerald Shrum, 90; and Nicholas Cymbol, 43.
An anaesthesiologist who helped stabilize the girl detected traits of poisoning compatible with succinylcholine and alerted the facility's board.
Allitt's story was depicted in episodes of the true crime documentaries Crimes That Shook Great Britain, Deadly Women, Born To Kill?, Evil Up Close, Britain's Most Evil Killers, and Nurses Who Kill.
Characteristics and motivations The motivation for this type of criminal behaviour is variable, but generally falls into one or more types or patterns: Mercy killer: Believes the victims are suffering or beyond help, though this belief may be delusional.
According to the criminal code of the canton of Geneva, the death penalty could be imposed for these crimes.
The facility's authorities had suspicions that Genene Jones could be harming babies, but their investigation proved inconclusive.
Life and murders Velma Barfield was born Margie Velma Bullard on October 29, 1932, in Eastover, North Carolina, but was raised near Fayetteville.
Eight days later, he was told that an autopsy by the hospital had found 13 times the normal concentration of the same heart drug in another dead baby.
The angel of mercy is often in a position of power and may decide the victim would be better off if they no longer suffered from whatever severe illness is plaguing them.
She had twin daughters with him but didn't want to take care of them, and suggested to her husband that they give them up for adoption.
73-year-old Ernest Koch (also Ernst Kohler), who died on May 6, 1933, was believed to be her first victim.
Initially, her lawyer Carles Monguilod, who claimed to have a kindred relationship with her client, tried to justify her client's actions by portraying them as euthanisations to end their suffering.
In summing up, the judge said to the jury: "Gentlemen, if such a state of things as this were allowed to exist no living person could sit down to a meal in safety".
When the verdict was returned, a sense of relief was in the courtroom, but there was also tension on the victims' families' side, much less than at the beginning of the trial, but still palpable.
After Majors started working at the facility, however, the rate skyrocketed to more than 100 per year, with nearly one out of every three patients admitted to the hospital dying.
Earl Edward Erdman Diary On March 28, 1910, Earl Edward Erdman, a civil engineer with the City of Seattle, died of starvation in the Seattle General Hospital.
She incrementally leaked out her version of the homicides, portraying Graham as the mastermind and hands-on killer.
He poisoned two of his neighbors—sickening one, Diane Alexander, by putting hepatitis serum in her drink, and killing the other, Helen Metzger, by putting arsenic in her pie.
It was established with certainty that Swanenburg poisoned at least 102 people with arsenic between 1880 and 1883.
More seriously than this, the three nuns disclosed that Bombeek had murdered Maria van der Gunst (87), an elderly woman who suffered from diabetes and was killed through an insulin overdose which induced a severe hypoglycemia attack.
The names of his victims are Mangala Jedhe, Salma Shaikh, Jagabai Pol, Surekha Chikane, Vanita Gaikwad and Nathmal Bhandari.
The police were frustrated by this move, although some local doctors ignored it and gave statements relating either to deceased patients or, in one instance, one who was alive.
It was only following the death of Becky Phillips that medical staff became suspicious of the number of cardiac arrests on the children's ward and police were called in.
According to Olivier Morice, a lawyer for families of five patients who had died in Malèvre's care, the charge of murder came about because the judge had realized “we are dealing with a serial killer more than with a Madonna of euthanasia”.
One of her victims was her second husband, Michael Gilligan; the others were residents of her nursing home.
Given the high mortality rates and the unregulated use of arsenic for medical and other purposes at the time, it is not certain that she intentionally killed people who had been in her care.
Four days later, on 27 February, Fikáčková was arrested directly in the workplace, and during the subsequent interrogation, she confessed to killing the children.
During his employment from January 2003 to July 2004, a pattern of more than 80 deaths occurred on his shifts.
The police were informed and a higher than average death rate on his ward increased their suspicions.
In October 2005 the GMC found two doctors who worked at Tameside General Hospital in 1994 guilty of serious professional misconduct for failing to report their concerns and for giving misleading evidence to the Shipman inquiry.
Further investigations, 2014-2017 Amidst mounting suspicion that Högel might be responsible for further deaths, police launched a major investigation in October 2014, after which 200 suspicious deaths were identified.
Later that year, during a Christmas visit, Bullard fell ill again with the same symptoms but died after being hospitalized on December 30.
Trial, imprisonment and aftermath During Hooijmaijers' murder trial, it was determined that he had an IQ of 93, considered too low to be the head nurse of the ward.
Cecile Bombeek (1933–2019) was a Belgian nun and nurse who killed three people between 1976 and 1977.
Early life Ludivine Chambet, then aged 34, was a former caregiver in the Chambéry hospital, initially working in various nursing homes around Jacob-Bellecombette in Savoie.
Prosecutors said Gilbert threatened the life of at least one person verbally and physically in July 1996.
Geen, who was believed to be motivated by his 'thrill-seeking' temperament, injected a number of patients with dangerous drugs in order to cause respiratory arrest so he could enjoy the 'thrill' of resuscitating them.
Crimes Wilson worked as a nurse, first in Spalding, Lincolnshire, and then moving to Kirkby Lonsdale, Cumbria.
The killings were carried out in Toppan's capacity as a nurse, targeting patients and their family members.
Almost all of the other midwives employed by Ishikawa were disgusted by this practice and resigned from their positions.
Toxicological tests revealed the presence of drugs such as neuroleptics and antidepressants, which were not part of the treatment.
While little is known of his childhood, he was considered an outcast at school due to being overweight and having a cleft lip, due to which he was often the target of bullying from his peers.
It was later revealed that she administered a fatal dose of medication to her husband Massimo, causing his death in the process.
While staying with relatives Max and Anna Doeschel in Cincinnati, Ohio, Hahn met fellow German immigrant Philip Hahn; they married in 1930.
In the course of one month up to fifteen children are thought to have been targeted, all between the ages of one and ten.
The judge described Brega Massone as "cruel, malevolent and lacking the slightest sense of human pity".
Explaining why some of her colleagues did not report on the story, Henneberger wrote, "One colleague viewed Gosnell's alleged atrocities as a local crime story, though I can't think of another mass murder, with hundreds of victims, that we ever saw that way.
Elizabeth Wettlaufer — a convicted Canadian serial killer and registered nurse who confessed to murdering eight senior citizens and attempting to murder six others by injecting them with insulin.
Heather Irene Pressdee (born August 28, 1982) is an American registered nurse and convicted serial killer.
The aides were caught after a doctor overheard them bragging about their latest murder at a local tavern.
This statement was supported by his parents, who voiced their belief that their son would never commit such a horrendous crime.
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of serial killers active in the 2020s == References ==
Margie Velma Barfield (née Bullard; October 29, 1932 – November 2, 1984) was an American serial killer who was convicted of one murder but was linked to seven murders in total.
2018-2019 trial, life sentence and appeal In January 2018, the Oldenburg state's attorney's office pressed charges against Högel, accusing him of having murdered 100 patients between 7 February 2000 and 24 June 2005 (four separate charges that were jointly tried).
When Clinton confronted Saenz, Saenz said she was cleaning an unused dialysis machine, and used a syringe to get a precise measurement–a method that was contrary to DaVita corporate policy.
As a murder weapon, he would use syringes filled with either insulin or valium, as those substances were hard to trace and the deaths appeared more natural.
And then [heard her own] laughter afterwards, which was really, it was like a cackling from the pit of hell." Wettlaufer told police she had tried to stop killing and she had told friends, a former partner and her pastor what she had done, but no one took her seriously.
On the evening of 17 October, and according to Vila's confessions, she had been drinking wine and Coca-Cola all day, and upon hearing Gironès i Quintana coughing, she decided to check upon her.
Hazzard was sentenced to 2 to 20 years in prison, which she served in the Washington State Penitentiary in Walla Walla.
Ayumi Kuboki (久保木愛弓; born April 10, 1987) is a Japanese spree killer, suspected serial killer and former nurse who was convicted of killing three patients at the Oguchi Hospital in Yokohama using diamitol, all of which occurred September 2016.
Petrov was sentenced to life imprisonment and is suspected to have killed up to 19 people until his arrest.
In court, prosecutors asserted that the couple had murdered at least twenty-seven infants among eighty-four deaths between April 1946 and January 1948.
Ishikawa's name and address (same as Kotobuki San'in) were listed in telephone directories between 1954 and 1987.
Myllgren had requested to be paroled in March 2021, when she would have served the legal minimum of 12 years.
The rape victim was found soon after and positively identified Joyner as her rapist, verifying his account.
Whether she was responsible for the shooting remains unknown, though it is speculated to be the case.
The jury reached a verdict that the defendant was found guilty, but under extenuating circumstances, so she was sentenced to the maximum sentence of twenty years in prison.
They also said Davis had "enjoyed" carrying out the murders and "liked to kill people." On October 27, 2021, Davis was sentenced to death after about two hours of jury deliberation.
With 22 claimed victims between 1995 and 2001, he is the most prolific serial killer in Swiss criminal history.
In searching for evidence that would be strong enough to obtain a conviction, police exhumed the remains of patients who had died while Saldivar had been on duty and been buried (rather than cremated).
In September 1981, the team leader nurse Phyllis Trayner (died 2011) found propranolol tablets in food that she was eating, and another nurse found the tablets in her soup.
In the aftermath of this, the bodies of Abrams, Thornton and James were exhumed for testing, as the other victims' bodies had been cremated.
She was prosecuted for poisoning 13 elderly people between September 2012 and November 2013, resulting in the deaths of 10 victims.
Biography Childhood and youth Vila was born on 26 September 1965, in Castellfollit de la Roca, Catalonia (Spain), the child of a working class-family of embutido makers.
Staff at Gosnell's clinic testified that there were hundreds of infants born alive during abortion procedures and subsequently killed either by Gosnell himself or on Gosnell's orders by staff.
Louay Omar Mohammed al-Taei is an Iraqi serial killer and medical doctor accused of murdering wounded policemen, soldiers and officials in Kirkuk while pretending to treat them.
Aftermath In 1969, Ishikawa was interviewed by Shūkan Shinchō magazine, claiming innocence in the murders.
Gironès i Quintana began to convulse and expel the liquid, and despite being rushed to the emergency room, she died from her injuries.
The Shipman Inquiry, a two-year-long investigation of all deaths certified by Shipman, chaired by Dame Janet Smith, examined Shipman's crimes.
Unlike her early years, where she was described as brilliant and terrible, at the hospital she was well-liked, bright, and friendly, earning her the nickname "Jolly Jane".
It was suggested that he either resign his position at the Clinic and continue to receive full wages for another three months or transfer to the Clinic's logistics unit where he would assist in moving patients throughout the hospital.
Bertha Alice Williams Graham Gifford (October 30, 1871 – August 20, 1951) was a farmwife in rural Catawissa, Missouri during the early 1900s who was accused of murdering three members of the local community and suspected in 15 additional deaths.
VA hospital staff members speculated that Gilbert may have been responsible for 350 or more deaths and more than 300 medical emergencies.
Fikáčková was convicted of murder, sentenced to death, and subsequently executed by hanging at Pankrác Prison in Prague on 13 April 1961.
Saldivar later confessed to killing at least 60 patients by 1994, claiming that he "lost count" after that but continued killing for at least three more years.
Hannam was in the unusual position that, instead of having to find a suspect for a known crime, he had a known suspect in Adams but needed to link him to more serious crimes than forging prescriptions, making false statements and mishandling drugs.
In 1955, Fikáčková graduated from the medical school in Klatovy, and in 1957 she began working as a nurse in the obstetrics department of the hospital in Sušice.
Biography Zelenka was born on February 27, 1976, as the firstborn child of a family of high school-educated parents.
Members of the jury tried to understand the reasons behind the acts, but Chambet would remember things for only a short period of time before blacking out.
"Mullane retweeted the photo a few more times, with different captions, because it had been packed into a snowball (of criticism)" which included Powers' column for USA Today, Weigel wrote.
Their deaths were confirmed in 1919, twenty-three years after his execution, when the remains of an unknown man and woman were found on a farm.
Allitt is also referenced in the Manic Street Preachers song 'Archives of Pain' on the 1994 album 'The Holy Bible'.
She married a man called Dixon but her husband soon died, probably poisoned with colchicum, a bottle of which was found in his room.
During the police interview she described the "laughter" not as audible laughter, but as a feeling within her chest (visually using her hands), while the feeling prompting her to overdose and subsequently kill as coming from her stomach region.
As was customary with all executed criminals, his body was buried on the same day beneath the flagstones of the prison - along with other executed criminals- marked by one initial.
According to Josias Quintal, Rio's secretary for public security, "He may have begun doing it to earn money and then just lost control".
Wood also portrayed Graham as being sexually, physically and emotionally dominant in their relationship.
Public opinion quickly turned against her to support the prosecution's opinion that she did not help her patients, but rather was a serial killer who murdered them to satisfy her own compulsions.
The lab reports were passed on by the Zimbabwe Republic Police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) through Interpol to the FBI, who subsequently visited Zimbabwe to interview Cotton and the pathologist in Bulawayo, Stanford Mathe.
Williamson's sister, Dorothea, also took the treatment, and, it is alleged, only survived because a family friend showed up in time to remove her from Wilderness Heights.
During the investigation, police obtained a warrant to exhume the bodies of Eckard, Maxwell, Amlie, and Monroe.
See also List of serial killers in the United States List of medical and pseudo-medical serial killers References Further reading Phelps, M.
Letter also reportedly gave an inappropriate injection to a 22-year-old soldier with minor injuries from a fall; she lost consciousness but recovered.
It has been reported that Gosnell spent four decades practicing medicine among the poor, including a teen-aid program and opening the Mantua Halfway House, a rehab clinic for drug addicts in the impoverished Mantua neighborhood of West Philadelphia.
No physical evidence exists for five of the seven cases‍— charges are based on staff testimony and denied by Gosnell.
In 2011, Gosnell, his wife Pearl, and eight employees were charged with a total of 32 felonies and 227 misdemeanors in connection with numerous deaths, illegal abortion procedures, and regulatory violations.
William Phelps, author of The Devil's Rooming House, investigation appeared to show that Amy was buying the arsenic to kill large numbers of rats.
Trial and conviction During the eight-week trial, 32 witnesses testified and more than 100 exhibits were entered into evidence.
He forged a fact sheet from the Illinois Department of Corrections that falsified his criminal record, stating that he had been convicted of a misdemeanor for getting into a fistfight with a co-worker and received six months in prison, rather than the five years for felony poisoning that he served.
In his book about Holmes, author Adam Selzer writes: "Just killing several people isn't necessarily enough for most definitions [of a serial killer].
Luke’s from a lawsuit that awarded a $95 million civil judgment against Cullen to families of eight former patients.
When questioned, Mors readily and calmly admitted to killing eight of the seventeen patients who had recently died.
The motive for the murders was never officially confirmed, but based on statements made by Fikáčková, claimed she developed temporary feelings of paedophobia (fear of children) during her menstruation periods.
On 21 July 2011, it was confirmed that two more patients' deaths were being linked to the investigation, bringing the death count to five.
He would then measure their blood pressure and suggest they needed an injection which anaesthetized them.
In 2005 he was sentenced to 110 years imprisonment for the murder of four children and the attempted murder of another four.
Kristen Heather Gilbert (née Strickland; born November 13, 1967) is an American serial killer and former nurse who was convicted of four murders and two attempted murders of patients admitted to the Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) in Northampton, Massachusetts.
Patient suffered "convulsions" and fell off the operating table, sustaining a head injury; Gosnell "wouldn't call an ambulance, and wouldn't let the woman's companion leave the building so that he could call an ambulance".
District Attorney Clyde Herrington believed more victims existed than just the 10 indicted cases, based on CDC research.
He attempted suicide and was committed to the Navy psychiatric ward several times for depression before being discharged in 1984 for undisclosed reasons.
The book portrays Wood as a psychopathic criminal mastermind who manipulated the prosecutor and the jury to punish Graham.
Two years later they both were facing murder charges for allegedly smothering five elderly patients as part of a "love bond".
Aftermath Hansen is the subject of the Netflix series The Nurse which was released on 27 April 2023.
Crimes Early robberies In 1997, Petrov began robbing his patients by visiting their homes unannounced and usually in the morning when relatives would be at work.
In 1987, Feltner temporarily quit his job for two months so he could locate his birth father, and after succeeding in doing so, he returned to Melrose and was rehired.
Natalia Agüero highlighted Brenda's upbringing with their parents and the impact that their divorce had on her.
Three nurses were at the centre of the investigation and an apparent attempt to poison nurses' food.
I used them myself [...] Do you think it is too much?" Devlin suggested that Hannam generally considered what a suspect said in interrogation was the best form of evidence, and that the police and prosecution case was based to a significant degree on admissions that Hannam had recorded Adams making.
Prosecutors said Gilbert was on duty for about half of the 350 deaths that occurred at the hospital from when she started working there in 1989, and that the probability of this merely being a coincidence was 1 in 100 million.
Archer-Gilligan was again found guilty of murder, but this time she was sentenced only to life imprisonment.
In March 2018, she was transferred from Grand Valley to an unspecified secure facility in Montreal to receive medical treatment.
Greater Manchester Police (GMP) announced that the inquiry into how saline solutions had been contaminated with insulin would form the basis of a murder inquiry.
Jones pleaded not guilty on a May 27 arraignment and was remanded in custody on a $225,000 bond ($727,322 in 2025) in Williamson County custody.
Hazzard established a "sanitarium" called Wilderness Heights, located in Olalla, Washington, where inpatients fasted for days, weeks, or months on a diet consisting of small amounts of tomato, asparagus juice, and occasionally orange juice.
Although she was only convicted of a total of three murders, Austrian police believe that she may have murdered at least 10 people.
Misconduct Between 1954 and 1967, Clark's medical license was revoked on four occasions: once for "gross misconduct," twice for "moral turpitude," and once without specific charges.
Although she referred to her as a "bastard" and claimed that she had slapped her, her accusations were not heeded either by the staff or her niece.
Harper's went on: We speak without hesitation of her crimes as plural, because, adopting the language of Mr.
Leonardo Cazzaniga (born 1956), known as Doctor Death (Italian: Dottor Morte), is an Italian serial killer and former anesthesiologist who murdered between nine and fifteen patients at a hospital in Saronno between 2010 and 2014, some with the help of his lover and accomplice, Laura Taroni.
On 9 April 2014, Brega Massone, was tried for 4 murders and 34 battery cases in a different trial, and was convicted to life sentence.
Rogers, a banker from northern Wisconsin, was allegedly murdered by Holmes in 1891 with help from an unnamed accomplice.
Hooijmaijers served his prison sentence until early 1987, when he was released and lived as a free man until his death from natural causes on August 20, 2006.
Barfield had requested that her organs be used for transplant purposes, but this was not possible since her heart could not be restarted.
On March 12, 2002, at age 32, Saldivar pleaded guilty to six counts of murder and received seven consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole.
Delmenhorst Clinic, 2002-2005 In December 2002, Högel transferred to the Delmenhorst Clinic, where emergencies and fatalities, mostly due to arrhythmia or sudden decreases in blood pressure, began spiking whilst Högel was on duty.
Hooijmaijers' mother, Maria, would also be arrested on the unrelated charge of poisoning her second husband with arsenic, for which she was sentenced to 8 months imprisonment.
Time magazine reported that Bombeek was finally apprehended through the efforts of fellow nuns who worked within the 38-bed geriatric ward and who recorded a string of mysterious deaths and other irregularities.
John Bodkin Adams, a British General Practitioner who was placed on trial for murder in 1957, but was acquitted and ultimately only faced convictions for forging prescriptions.
Research by an epidemiologist at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention revealed that Saenz had been present at every incident in April at which someone died.
Wettlaufer had confessed to killing patients several times prior to her confession at CAMH, including to a lawyer who advised her to keep it a secret, and was not reported to police.
Patrolmen saw a hearse illegally parked at Clark's office that night and found a corpse inside, ready for transport.
At her trial, Fikáčková was charged and convicted for only the two murders on 23 February 1960, as it was not possible to prove the older killings she claimed to have committed.
Mahar notes that an editorial in a medical journal following the case suggested that the publicity it caused might hamper medical discretion, but claimed the use of opiates in terminal cases was essential.
After working there for three and a half years without incident, Vila began killing her patients in August 2009.
The remaining five employees at the hospital received much more lenient sentences, with Valentini, Cosentina, Pennuto and Scoppetta each receiving 2 years and 6 months imprisonment.
Prosecutors stated that there were approximately twenty suspicious deaths while Mays worked at the hospital, but charges were brought only for the cases that were believed to have sufficient evidence.
On 11 February 2005, she was transferred to the Opg of Castiglione delle Stiviere (MN), and on 10 March, she withdrew the confession she made in December and three months later she said she remembered not killing anyone.
In a 2010 raid, authorities found the intact human remains of 47 fetuses and babies stored in bags and cartons, numerous of which were suspected and later confirmed to be victims of infanticide.
In November 1862, less than two years after being abandoned by her father, Honora was placed as an indentured servant in the home of Mrs.
Some consider her to be America's fifth solo female serial killer, behind Belle Gunness, Lydia Sherman, Jane Toppan, and Nannie Doss.
Murders Petrov committed his first murder on 2 February 1999 during his thirtieth robbery, when he was interrupted by the daughter of an anaesthetised patient who returned home while he was stealing.
In 2015, the Connecticut Supreme Court decided a case about access to Archer-Gilligan's medical records from her imprisonment, ruling the files were except from disclosure under the state's open records law.
Angelo was arrested for assault on the 73-year-old patient because he was the only person to match the description given to the police.
Woman age 28, five months pregnant (2001): Patient described the pain four days after abortion as being so bad she could barely walk.
Trial On November 6, 2017, the Yokohama District Court, with presiding Justice Watanabe Eikei, decides that the date of the first trial would be January 23, 2018.
All this and violent self-absorption, which includes narcissism, often makes the person conduct acts towards others so they can be the center of attention.
She was arrested after an autopsy on 78-year-old Rosa Calderoni revealed dangerous levels of potassium in her body.
In a book she later wrote, called “My Confession”, Malèvre stated “I helped people to end their suffering and depart in peace.
On 23 February 2018, she was convicted of killing her husband and mother, but acquitted of killing her father-in-law, resulting in a 30-year sentence.
During this period, there were 25 complaints to the Michigan medical board, including: three deaths from drug overdose, allegations of illegal abortion, sexual assaults on his patients, child molestation, excessive drug treatment for non-existent ailments, and practicing medicine without a license.
Irene Becker (born 1952) is a German nurse, and serial killer, who killed at least 5 people by administering them drugs while working at the Charité clinic.
She recruited Gruber, 19, and Leidolf, 21, and eventually the "house mother" of the group, 43-year-old Stephanija Meyer.
They feared that if they could not find enough evidence to convict Swango, he would likely kill again.
In 2008, the Justice Ministry in Austria announced that it would release Wagner and Leidolf from prison due to good behaviour.
Sister Gertrude is the head nurse/nun in a general hospital, whose increasingly psychotic behavior endangers the staff and patients around her." Death Bombeek died aged 86 in 2019 at a care centre in Sint-Jozef, Wetteren, near Ghent.
Leidolf received a life sentence as well, on conviction of five murders, while Meyer and Gruber received 20 years and 15 years respectively for manslaughter and attempted murder charges.
Ahmadi, along with Sarpās Mokhtār (Central Police chief), Mostafā Rāsekh, and Hosein Niroumand, was arrested and tried for crimes committed during Rezā Shāh's reign.
This was discovered by the medical director of the garrison, who informed the Public Prosecutor's Office.
According to Olivier Sotty, the police captain who conducted the investigation, this was "an exceptional case considering the number of victims".
John the Baptist Diocesan High School in 1980 and then entered a two-year nursing program at Farmingdale State College, where he was a well-regarded honor student.
Doctor Paweł Wasilewski was sentenced to five years and banned from practising medicine for 10 years for the willful endangering of four patients.
Gwendolyn Gail Graham (born August 6, 1963) and Catherine May Wood (born March 7, 1962) are American serial killers convicted of killing five elderly women in Walker, Michigan, a suburb of Grand Rapids, in 1987.
His most peculiar trait was his claim that he had a supposed supernatural gift, as he could accurately predict when patients would die.
The medical records of these patients showed that the Pavulon found in their bodies was not prescribed to them by a medical professional.
On 12 February 1828—the only exact date Burke quoted in his confession—she was invited into the Hares' house and plied with enough alcohol to ensure she was too drunk to return home.
Her former lawyer Harald Schmidt was jailed for seven years for being an accomplice to grievous bodily harm and for forging the will of Alois Pichler.
Harold Shipman had a previous conviction for prescription fraud and forgery, for which he was fined £600.
After Swanenburg's first two daughters died at a young age, she married Johannes van der Linden on 13 May 1868.
The drugstore's owner, Elizabeth Holton, gave Holmes a job; he proved to be a hardworking employee, eventually buying the store.
Biography Haldan Hartline did his undergraduate studies at Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania, graduating in 1923.
His theory has not been taken up by the Egyptological community, but the book remains a stimulating and detailed study of the Egyptian pyramids.
Herbert Mermagen noted x-ray pioneer and medical physicist was born on 19 April 1907 and died at the age of 73 in Rochester, New York in January 1981.
Early life and education Williams was born in New York City on October 23, 1983, and considers Potomac, Maryland his hometown.
1958–1960, Director, Division of Health Safety and Waste Disposal, International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna, Austria.
Upon retirement from medical practice, Ebersole pursue a lifelong passion in mystery novels and crime fiction.
During the final months of the war the fighting intensified and there was a steep increase in workload; in the month of June alone the x-ray workload peaked at over 1,300, partly because of an increased use of fluoroscopy.
See also Brachytherapy Radiation oncology American Brachytherapy Society References External links Henschke Award recipients, American Brachytherapy Society Ulrich K.
She has served on various medical physics organisations and was president of the International Organisation for Medical Physics.
Radioactive iodine was found to be particularly useful in the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid disorders.
In 1990, he was appointed Joel Professor of Physics Applied to Medicine at the University of London in 1990, becoming Emeritus upon retirement.
William McAdams Outstanding Service Award The William McAdams Outstanding Service Award, is named after one of the founders of the Certification process for health physicists, William A.
Callaghan is an Irish medical physicist who is the Director of the Wellcome Centre for Human Neuroimaging at the UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology.
Mackie is a Fellow of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine and a member at large of that organization’s Science Council.
Ebersole of Sterling, Illinois, explained to the President that submariners in the new type craft get an average radiation dosage of about 200 milliroentgens a year, compared with an allowable industrial dose of about 300 a week.
Finally, the technique can be used to measure the effectiveness of dose levels of antibiotics and drugs.
Beahrs, M.D., Rochester, Minnesota – "Treatment of Squamous Cell Epithelioma of the Anus" 1978 Frank J.
The initial federal appropriation doubled and applications quadrupled from year 1 to year 2, bringing a new community of physical scientists and engineers into the NIH community.
Research and career Jafari developed a string of tiny calibrated silica beads that can be used to measure radiation inside a patient's body.
Hughes, is a medical physicist whose work on CT and MRI scanners helped reduce their cost, making such equipment more available and widespread.
These systems were described by Wowk in the chapter "Phased Array Optics" in the 1996 anthology Nanotechnology: Molecular Speculations on Global Abundance [1], and highlighted in the September 1998 Technology Watch section of Popular Mechanics magazine.
He pioneered the development of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that lead to modern commercial clinical 1.5 tesla MRI scanners, along with methods for performing noninvasive localized magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and applying them to the study of energy supply in human heart disease.
He worked on a long-term project to determine the effects on beagles of low-level, chronic exposure to strontium-90.
This accelerated program over 24 consecutive months aimed to train physician-scientists who would bring new perspectives to meeting healthcare challenges.
in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and is board-certified in medical physics.
In December 1958 Goldman, with his wife and new-born child, moved to Davis, California; the University of California, Davis (UC Davis) hired him as a radiation biologist.
In 1975, he started his PhD in physics at the University of Nottingham in England, in one of the three original groups that began MRI.
He also volunteered as an emergency medical technician and firefighter with the Rockville Volunteer Fire Department in Montgomery County, Maryland.
Between 1980 and 1984, he led the New York center for Dietary Intervention Study for Hypertension, again supported by the NHLBI.
Publications and editorial roles Blaufox has authored or edited 25 books and over 290 peer-reviewed articles and book chapters, primarily in the fields of nuclear medicine, hypertension, and medical history.
After his retirement from Columbia University's Center for Radiological Research in 1960, he was appointed Senior Scientist Emeritus in the Radiological Physics Division of the Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois.
ionization chambers proportional counters Geiger counters Semiconductor detectors Scintillation detectors The links should be followed for a fuller description of each.
His work in the latter field is cited by several text books, including Functional MRI[2] which includes an image he obtained of magnetic field changes inside the human body caused by respiration.
When the USS Seawolf was decommissioned, he started a residency in radiology at Bethesda Naval Hospital.
Every five years conferences dedicated to his scientific heritage have been held in Baku, such as in 2013, 2007, and 2003.
He went on to develop the Radiation Epidemiology Branch at the National Cancer Institute and became its first director in 1984.
He lived in China until 1926, when political unrest there prompted his parents to return to North America.
At the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, she was the only woman among the University's 400 members, and the first since 1917.
During World War II, she worked on the Manhattan Project at Princeton University and the Los Alamos National Laboratory, where she prepared the first sample of pure uranium-235 at the laboratory.
Biography His father Manley Jefferson Evans (1878–1970) and mother Alice Jennie Turner (1882–1965) married in August 1905 in O'Neill, Nebraska.
She is a researcher in cancer therapy and medical innovation, modelling software as well as new pharmaceuticals to enhance therapies for cancer.
Kalender was involved in the development of the world's first product options for dual-energy CT [1] in 1983 and for metal artifact reduction (MAR) in 1987.
His research activities include intensity-modulated radiotherapy, Monte Carlo techniques and image-guided radiotherapy.
He was awarded the British Institute of Radiology's Röntgen Prize in 1972 and their Barclay Medal in 1987.
Working from that conclusion, he further elaborated a theory that pyramid construction in Egypt took on a life of its own during the Third and Fourth Dynasties, more or less independently of the reigns of pharaohs.
This research has enabled microwave-based screening tools to reach detection rates equivalent to traditional x-ray mammography, opening the door to fast, accurate, readerless detection of early-stage breast cancer.
Career Shepherd designs and develops dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry systems, mammography and 3D optical biomarkers used to evaluate the risk of osteoporosis, breast cancer, and obesity.
Professional career Roberts Rugh began his professional career as a faculty member at Lawrence College (1927-1928) and went on to teach at Hunter College (1929-1939) and New York University (1939-1948) before moving to Columbia University.
Army Air Force pulling duty as a gunner aboard a B-29 bomber and served in the Pacific Theater of Operations during World War II.
Career In 2000, al-Naimi moved back to Qatar and took up a post as Director of Safety for the Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC).
In 1951, with two colleagues, he made the first detection of plutonium in lung tissue from animals that inhaled dust from U.S.
During his early years with the Public Health Service, he continued his post-graduate studies at the Harvard School of Public Health, receiving a second master's degree in medical physics in 1974 and his Doctor of Science degree in epidemiology in 1977.
Select publications Thesis Radionuclides in Reactor Cooling Water-Identification, Source and Control.
Diseases of the Chest vol.56 (6): 519–523 [5] According to Google Scholar, it has been cited 43 times.
He was also academically affiliated with the Departments of Nuclear Engineering Sciences and Environmental Engineering Sciences.
There she collaborated with Solomon Berson to develop radioimmunoassay, a radioisotope tracing technique that allows the measurement of tiny quantities of various biological substances in human blood as well as a multitude of other aqueous fluids.
For the duration of the war, he taught physics, mathematics, radar systems, and radio navigation to newly recruited airplane pilots as part of the British Commonwealth Air Training Plan.
Ontario Cancer Institute In 1956, Johns assumed the headship of the physics division of the Ontario Cancer Institute at Princess Margaret Hospital in Toronto.
Quimby received many awards for her work throughout her career and participated in several scientific societies.
Álvaro Freire de Villalba Alvim (16 April 1863 – 21 May 1928) was a Brazilian physician, pioneer in radiology and radiotherapy.
A pioneer in both biophysics and radiobiology, he was particularly noted for his work on the role of radiation as a cause of cancer and genetic mutation.
The "Buchenwald touch" memo Once the AEC took over control of the Manhattan Project's various roles, Hamilton returned to his work at Berkeley.
Prior to 2011 the training route in the United Kingdom was administered in two parts, and this scheme is still used in Scotland (known as the Scottish Medical Physics and Clinical Engineering Training Scheme (SMPCETS)).
Los Alamos and Eberline Instruments In 1953, Eberline left the steady employment he had at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory and started his company Eberline Instruments, established to develop, produce and market radiation detection devices and instruments.
In 1929, she became professor of physics at Milwaukee-Downer College (an elite women's college later absorbed into Lawrence University), then head of the physics department in 1934.
Throughout her career, she tended to shun feminist organizations, but still advocated for including more women in science.
Two months after his nineteenth birthday, he emigrated to New York City and worked as a meter tester while studying at Cooper Union Night School of Electrical Engineering.
Fedoruk's masters work on depth-dose measurements for radiation treatment were essential in the success of the beam therapy unit.
Cowan was an American health physicist and head of the Instrumentation and Health Physics Department at Brookhaven National Laboratory.
Research Dekker has focused his research on constructing global FAIR data-sharing infrastructures, employing AI to develop outcome prediction models from that data, and utilizing those models to enhance patient outcomes.
Construction and Performance of a Muscle-Equivalent Environmental Radiation Meter of Extreme Sensitivity.
A medical physicist plays a fundamental role in applying physics to medicine, but particularly in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer.
Press of the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijan SSR., Baku, (1964).Радиоизотопы и их применение в физике полупроводников.
Reactor Siting, the Exclusion Area Concept and an Alternative Approach Radioactive Uniform Extended Sources.
Awards Taschner has been a member of the Health Physics Society since 1958 and was an emeritus member of the American Academy of Health Physics.
Elmer Allen, CAL-3, was 36 at the time of injection and lived for 44 years post injection, with his cause of death being recorded as respiratory failure, pneumonia.
When the new department opened, Farmer was appointed first Professor of Medical Physics at Newcastle University in 1966.
Arguably, Webb's most important work was on radiation therapy and included treatment planning and intensity-modulated and image-guided radiotherapies.
Kalender developed volumetric spiral computed tomography; the world's first clinical spiral CT studies were presented at RSNA 1989.
Harris, M.D., Dana-Farber Cancer Institute – “50 Years of Progress in Radiation Therapy for Breast Cancer”.
Health Physics Museum, Tales from the Atomic Age, Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) Museum of Radiation and Radioactivity.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Blaufox conducted studies on reflux in children with radioisotopes, funded by the Public Health Service, and researched renal blood flow and renin secretion in hypertension, supported by the National Heart and Lung Institute from 1967 to 1970.
In a series of papers published in 1937 Hamilton detailed early medical trials using radioactive sodium, followed by papers detailing the use of the radioactive isotopes of potassium, chlorine, bromine, and iodine.
Career In 1940, Farmer began working as assistant physicist in the radiography department at Middlesex Hospital, one of a group of physicists employed by London hospitals during the war to work on issues related to the emerging technology of X-rays, and the use of radium to treat cancer.
Navy Unit Commendation - USS Seawolf SSN-575 Royal Naval Society of Sweden, Merit Citation Gorgas Medal, 1958.
The introduction into clinical practice was performed in 2018 at the University Spital Zurich (Swiss).
Part II involves exclusively clinical experience in which the candidate would produce a portfolio of experience and submit to the Academy for Healthcare Science which (in addition to a viva) would lead to professional accreditation by IPEM.
Koontz was involved in the Clinch River Breeder Reactor project, where he was responsible for Atomics International's contract on the design of the radioactive waste and sodium disposal system.
Three teams headed by Hamilton, Louis Hempelmann and Wright Haskell Langham carried out trials, injecting plutonium into 18 unsuspecting human patients and measuring its concentration in excreta.
References External links John Haybittle on the History of Modern Biomedicine Research Group website
Along with their instructors, the students in Koontz's class of health physicists developed the first guidelines and procedures to protect people from ionizing radiation.
She was educated at an all-girl Catholic high school, entered a convent as a novitiate at age 14, finished high school at age 15, and became an undergraduate at Notre Dame College in Ohio at age 16.
Frank Farmer OBE (18 September 1912 – 16 July 2004) was an English physicist, and a pioneer in the application of physics to medicine, particularly in relation to the practical aspects of cancer treatment by radiation.
This award bearing his name is given from time to time to a Florida medical physicist who is distinguished by significant scientific or clinical research, outstanding service as an educator in medical physics, or outstanding clinical service in medical physics.
She moved to Imperial College London for her graduate research, where she joined Joseph Hajnal and David Larkman at Hammersmith Hospital and earned her Ph.D.
Noted books Rugh also wrote a number of books, including: The Frog: Its Reproduction and Development (1951) Experimental Embryology (1962) The Dynamics of Development (1964) The Mouse: Its Reproduction and Development (1967) A Laboratory Manual of Vertebrate Embryology (1971) == References ==
She discovered she was pregnant with her third child a few days after learning that she herself had cancer.
Together with Anatoly Pinchuk and Jamey Weichert, he is the inventor of long-lived tumor specific Gadolinium-based agents for imaging and therapy.
Early life and education Born in Enochville, North Carolina in 1907, Karl Morgan attended Lenoir-Rhyne College (now University) as a freshman and sophomore and then transferred to the University of North Carolina, where he graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in physics and mathematics.
In 2004, Mistretta was elected a fellow of the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering.
He was born in Castelbuono in the Province of Palermo and emigrated with his family to the United States in 1906.
If the pyramids were built independently of each other and at distinct times, it would have been necessary to assemble and train the workforce for each building and lay them off as the work continued.
In 1997, Planque chaired a planning committee, Celebration of Women in Engineering, which developed conferences that encouraged women to choose careers in engineering and included the development of the website EngineerGirl.
Reexamining the Scientific Basis for the Linear No-threshold Model of Low-dose Radiation: Hearing Before the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment of the Committee on Science, House of Representatives, One Hundred Sixth Congress, Second Session, July 18, 2000.
Captain Laning and the Seawolf crew were greeted upon return to port at New London, Connecticut, by Rear Admiral Hyman G.
At Los Alamos, Skaggs was charged with the task of adapting the anti-aircraft detection system into a failsafe "fuse" for the first bomb that would be used against Japan.
Sievert Award References External links Media related to Rolf Sievert at Wikimedia Commons Rolf Sievert, the man and the unit Rolf Maximilian Sievert (1896–1966): father of radiation protection
He continued his education at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, Virginia, where he received his PhD in engineering physics in 1993.
In July 1998, she became director of the White House Office of Combating Terrorism under the National Security Council.
Furthermore, it has resulted in the production of multiple academic textbooks in the field of medical physics.
She died nearly five years later in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, of breast cancer and leukemia, possibly as the result of her work with radioactive materials, on April 17, 1961.
Gofman, December 20, 1994 at the Wayback Machine (archived September 25, 2007); "The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory's Archives and Records Office's Role in the US Department of Energy's Human Radiation Experiment Records Search and Retrieval Project" by Lori L.
Kalender's research have been radiation protection and the development of intelligent and very efficient dose reduction approaches such as tube current modulation [7] and the optimization of the choice of x-ray spectra.
She became one of the earliest (and oldest) members of the Women's Engineering Society and played an active part in the organisation until shortly before her death.
Sievert served as head of the physics laboratory at Sweden's Radiumhemmet from 1924 to 1937, after which he was appointed head of the department of radiation physics at the Karolinska Institute.
Gordon-Hagerty was appointed by President Donald Trump as under secretary of energy for nuclear security and administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration, confirmed by the U.S.
George Samuel Hurst (13 October 1927 – 4 July 2010) was an inventor, health physicist, and professor of Physics at the University of Kentucky.
A graduate of the University of Wisconsin, she became professor of physics at Milwaukee-Downer College in 1929.
Florence set up her own unit with the Women's Imperial Service League and spent the next 6 months in Europe.
He was made a Fellow of the American Physical Society in 1953 and of the British Institute of Physics.
He received the John Scott Medal and the Comstock Prize in Physics in 1922 and the Leonard Prize of the American Roentgen Ray Society in 1923.
This equipment bears his name today as the: Shonka ionization chamber, the Shonka electrometer, and Shonka plastics.
Bezak was the first female president of the Australasian College of Physical Scientists and Engineers in Medicine (ACPSEM).
He is also a founder and chairman of the board of TomoTherapy, Incorporated, an international company listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the symbol TOMO, employing over 700 people based out of Madison, WI, USA.
She came to the University of British Columbia (UBC) for doctoral study in physics, completing her Ph.D.
The range of application of the Tweedie distributions is wide and includes: Taylor's law, fluctuation scaling, 1/f noise, random matrix theory, hematogenous cancer metastasis, genomic structure and evolution, regional blood flow heterogeneity, multifractality.
After leaving King's she moved to Bournemouth, where she lived with her sister Florence, who was suffering from spinal cancer (and died in 1932).
Education and career Tweedie read physics at the University of Reading and attained a BSc (general) and BSc (special) in physics in 1939 followed by a MSc in physics 1941.
She was Co-Chair of Committee for International Intercomparison of Environmental Dosimeters and director for Energy Strategists Consultancy, Ltd.
A fellow of the American Nuclear Society (ANS) and the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Planque was also a member of the National Academy of Engineering, the Association of Women in Science, and the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements.
Slavik Tabakov is a member of the IOMP Executive Committee since 2000, and member of the Administrative Council of the International Union for Physical and Engineering Sciences in Medicine (IUPESM) since 2009.
Kuchnir and Skaggs developed a method to produce neutrons for radiation therapy, maybe the first fast-neutron therapy facility in the United States.
From 1956 to 1961 he was chairman of the department of physics at the college of engineering at New York University.
She had a leg amputation in 2006, and she died from heart failure in 2007, aged 73 years, survived by her partner of 16 years, Patricia Keenan.
Let μ {\displaystyle \mu } be a latent variable we don't observe, but we know it has a certain prior distribution p ( μ ) {\displaystyle p(\mu )} .
She was reportedly underwhelmed by this, quoted as jokingly saying "I have more important things to do than advise Nicole Kidman." In 2007, she married Walter Houston, the founder and CEO of Tier Tech International.
More recent work showed that a neural network based on cardiac CK metabolic parameters alone could differentiate a number of different types of cardiac disease and severity with potentially clinically useful accuracy.
See also Anti-nuclear movement in the United States List of nuclear whistleblowers Nuclear safety References External links Human Radiation Studies: Remembering the Early Years; Oral History of Health Physicist Karl Z.
Nevertheless, Lindemann contacted him again in 1932 inviting him to the Clarendon Laboratory in Oxford to install a helium liquifier.
They allow reducing the patient dose by an order of magnitude in many cases without impairing image quality.
Career Atomic Energy Commission In 1954, Claus oversaw the testing of samples from the Marshall Islands for radioactive fallout from the Castle Bravo explosion.
Halko (April 15, 1933 – March 22, 2007) was an American medical physicist and gay rights advocate, based in Chicago.
self-organized criticality Tweedie's formula Tweedie is credited for a formula first published in Robbins (1956), which offers "a simple empirical Bayes approach to correcting selection bias".
Career During his medical physics career, Cunningham published over 70 peer-reviewed papers, book chapters, and conference proceedings, and is widely known for co-authoring The Physics of Radiology (1953) with Dr.
In 1956 he was promoted to become the overall manager at the Hanford Laboratories, holding this position until 1965 when operation of Hanford Laboratories was transferred from GE to Battelle Memorial Institute.
Hadiyah-Nicole Green (1981-) is an American medical physicist, known for the development of a method using laser-activated nanoparticles as a potential cancer treatment.
Career Hughes began his career as an apprentice printer in his father's business, and entered medicine somewhat later than was usual.
After boarding the steamship Mossoul in Marseille, they reached Salonika (known as Thessaloniki in modern Greece) on 3 November, where they took the night train north to Ghevgheli (now Gevgelija in modern North Macedonia), on the Serbian side of the Greek border.
The Military Health Physics Section of the Health Physics Society has named its highest award for excellence for John; the "John C.
Captain John Henry Ebersole, M.D., United States Navy Medical Corps (26 January 1925 – 23 September 1993) was a pioneer in submarine medicine and radiation oncology, selected by Admiral Hyman G.
In the 1960s Mauderli was one of the founders of the medical physics graduate program at UF and radiologic technology training programs at two regional community colleges.
As a strong advocate of education for women, she enabled young graduate women to spend time on research overseas and another to enable physicists to enter medical school thanks to the fund she created.
Honors Holland is a fellow of the Acoustical Society of America, the American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine, the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering., and the IEEE.
M., Feasibility of using glass bead TLDs for a postal dosimetry audit of MV radiotherapy photon beams, IUPESM 2015, World Congress on Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering.
In 1938 he isolated and crystallized the first bacteriophage (a small virus that attacks bacteria), and determined that it was a nucleoprotein.
Hamilton's studies of isotope retention in humans, especially of radioactive strontium and the transuranic elements, were the principal reason for the U.S.
The following year she became the first female recipient and first nuclear physicist of the Albert Lasker Award for Basic Medical Research.
She then moved to Australia and completed a master's degree at Queensland University of Technology, followed by a doctorate in radiology at the University of Queensland.
Paterson, he developed in 1932 the Paterson-Parker method, or Manchester System, for radiation therapy.
Edgar Charles Barnes (6 April 1909 – 27 December 1987) was a pioneer in the field of industrial hygiene and the first industrial hygienist to work for a major U.S.
Conference on the estimation of low-level radiation effects in human populations [Argonne, Illinois[, December 7–9, 1970, edited by George A.
Radiation dosimeters Dosimeters are devices worn by the user which measure the radiation dose that the user is receiving.
He then moved to the University of Toronto, where he earned his Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees in physics in 1939.
The son was educated at Yonkers High School and Columbia University, where he earned his BA in 1912 and PhD in chemistry in 1915.
The cobalt-60 beam therapy unit, or the "cobalt bomb" as it was known, was the first of its kind to successfully use targeted radiation to treat cancer in a patient.
Awards and recognition 2025 - Fellow of the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences & Engineering.
Following the death of her father due to cancer, Jafari was inspired by a strong motivation to effect change and immersed herself in the field of cancer care.
Skaggs worked with physicist Nicholas Smith to design an airplane proximity detection system that utilized radio waves to locate and detonate anti-aircraft shells.
Öberg is the founding chairman of the Clinical Engineering Division of the International Federation for Medical and Biological Engineering.
She spent her career helping to establish the new training program in health physics, teaching and advising graduate fellows in health physics from 1949.
Van den Berg designed the first implantable pacemaker that could be switched to a higher beat rate for a higher level of activity.
He is the inaugural chief technology and digital officer at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.
He investigated ultrasonic bioeffects and formulated ultrasonic safety guidelines and conditions for prudent use of ultrasonic diagnosis.
In 1938 Parker immigrated to the US to begin work at the Swedish Hospital in Seattle, where he worked with the radiologist Simeon T.
This was the first systematic study of radioactive fallout ever conducted.Warren's various research projects involved the American Society for Experimental Pathology, the U.S.
As his reputation became established, he did a substantial amount of work as a private medico-legal consultant.
He is also noted for his work on the recording and understanding of the electrical activity of the gut, the analysis of nerve action potentials, the use of electromyography to investigate and identify carriers of muscular dystropy and the development of aids for the profoundly deaf.
Early life and education He obtained his undergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Canada.
According to Mendelssohn the pyramids were constructed as cenotaphs, not as tombs and did not have to coincide with a Pharaoh's lifetime.
Recognition Reznik was given a Tier 2 Canada Research Chair in the Physics of Molecular Imaging in 2008 and was re-elected for a second term in 2013.
Anderson earned a Bachelor of Arts (AB) degree from Ripon College in 1922, then a Master of Arts (AM) in physics from the University of Wisconsin in 1924.
Mohan was the chairman of the Department of Radiation Physics at The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center and is currently a principal investigator at MD Anderson researching the optimization of proton therapy.
Duane perfected this "milking" technique during his time in Paris and referred to the device as a "radium cow".
Career Borst attended the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign and received bachelor's and master's degrees.
He also served as pathologist-in-chief at New England Baptist Hospital and at Pondville State Hospital and was a consultant for several other hospitals.
Evans was elected a fellow of the American Physical Society in 1936 and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1945.
Pistorius previously served as Provincial Director of Medical Physics at CancerCare Manitoba, the province's cancer screening and treatment institute.
Rose, health physicist Roberts Rugh, department of radiology, Columbia University, directed research on the effects of ionizing radiation, served as senior medical consultant Eric E.
It is expected that such a person will always give health physics information based on the highest standards of science and professional ethics.
He made significant contributions in the development of radiation detectors and instrumentation, neutron dosimetry and spectroscopy, and field sample analysis.
Harold Hodge headed the Pharmacology and Toxicology division that focused on Uranium including inhalation studies.
Dabney Kerr, M.D., Iowa City, Iowa – "Some Thoughts on the Training of a Radiation Therapist" 1950 Otto Glasser, Ph.D., Cleveland, Ohio – "Evolution of Radiological Physics as Applied to Isotopes" 1949 Charles L.
Alvim married Laura Paglia Agostini Alvim, the daughter of Angelo Agostini, and the couple had 3 children: Mariana, Alvaro, and Laura.
Health Physics Society Claus was a key member in the formation of the Health Physics Society and represented the U.S.
In the early 1990s he wrote that nanotechnology would revolutionize optics, making possible virtual reality display systems optically indistinguishable from real scenery as in the fictitious Holodeck of Star Trek.
In the late 1970s, Planque was a US expert delegate to the international committee for Development of an International Standard on Thermoluminescence Dosimetry.
References Notes 1.^ Nanotechnology: Molecular Speculations on Global Abundance 2.^ Functional MRI External links 21st Century Medicine Cell Repair Technology Medical Time Travel
Personal life In 1917, Northrop married Louise Walker (1891–1975), with whom he had two children: John, an oceanographer, and Alice, who married Nobel laureate Frederick C.
"Effect of ionizing radiations, including radioisotopes, on the placenta and embryo." Birth Defects, Orig.
In 1949 he joined the University of California, Berkeley as Professor of Bacteriology, and later, he was appointed Professor of Biophysics.
According to the book the consumer price of cheap meat does not include the overall costs of industrial meat production.
Early on, over 300 of them were consolidated into a multidistrict litigation called In re: Roundup Products Liability.
Man and Nature: Or, Physical Geography as Modified by Human Action, first published in 1864, was written by American polymath scholar and diplomat George Perkins Marsh (1801–1882).
Also required was the execution or exile of government supporters of the Boxers and the destruction of Chinese forts and other defenses in much of northern China.
On January 22, 2024 the DENR has issued a violation notice due to the resort operating without an Environmental Compliance Certificate (ECC).
The settling among limitless expanses of Bălți steppe happened not "in accordance" with logic, but "against" it.
The book has received favorable reviews, including a description of its "simple straightforward explanations" for a "full course in single-source dispersive modeling".
In Taiwan he visits a farm (labelled "organic") where 300,000 laying hens are being starved and held in batteries.
Julius Natterer, (December 5, 1938 – October 25, 2021), was a German engineer and professor of wood construction at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne.
The Universal Declaration of Human RIghts, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, sets out fundamental human rights that should be afforded to all people, and was the first document to do so.
Marie, the Thunder Bay Museum in Thunder Bay, the Lake of the Woods Discovery Centre in Kenora, and the Cochrane Public Library in Cochrane.
Many areas of the Beijing city wall were torn down in the 1960s to make way for the construction of the Beijing Subway and the 2nd Ring Road.
The Gorilla Project refers to a former plan for construction of the first major oil refinery in the United States in over 30 years.
Thus, permit holders can proceed with an activity, such as construction or other economic development, that may result in the "incidental" taking of a listed species.
The claims have received support by a study using dogs as a "sentinel species to approximate human exposure to a selection of chemical mixtures present in the environment".
Thesis Muir makes a complex, Malthusian argument for the origin of an industrial revolution in New England independent of the English industrial revolution.
Energy policy Energy policy is the manner in which a given entity (often governmental) has decided to address issues of energy development including energy production, distribution and consumption.
The Annual Environmental Media Awards have been presented by the Environmental Media Association (EMA) since 1991 to the best television episode or film with an environmental message.
Overlapping environmental, social, and economic forces such as the 1973 energy crisis and popularisation of the concept of globalisation helped bring Schumacher's Small Is Beautiful critiques of mainstream economics to a wider audience during the 1970s.
The coast of Patagonia is rich in animal life: elephant seals, fur seals, sea lions and species of penguin.
Antiandrogenic endocrine disruption has been shown in aquatic species, but the mechanism is unknown.
"Children and Trees Growing Together, A Future for Both', was the theme of the project between BELRIV and the mahogany plantation.
More than four years after the book's first publication, a hardcover "Deluxe Edition" was released through Heyday in November 2020.
Nearly all of Croatia's groundwater aquifers are top quality, unlike the available surface water; the latter's quality varies in terms of biochemical oxygen demand and bacteriological water analysis results.
This means that their near-future projections of regional impacts are likely to contain errors as well.
This causes phosphates to be brought up to the metalimnion and give organisms an abundance of phosphates, exacerbating the likelihood for algal blooms.
In 1980 the International Union for Conservation of Nature had published its influential World Conservation Strategy, followed in 1982 by its World Charter for Nature, which drew attention to the decline of the world's ecosystems.
Environment Using water for domestic, food and industrial uses has major impacts on ecosystems in many parts of the world.
The training programmes are usually as short as the standards allow, and do not provide more than a basic mention of diver impact on the underwater environment and methods to minimise that impact.
'High High or Tall Tall') was a male giant panda formerly at the San Diego Zoo from 2003 to 2018 and was then returned to China.
The Shamba Raiders is an account of the struggle to preserve herds of game threatened by modern civilisation, poaching, war and the political and economic changes which have swept Africa in the middle of the last century.
This development has been deplored by activistic ecological economists as an 'incoherent', 'shallow' and overly 'pragmatic' slide.
The court ruled that the firm had concealed the problem when it was first unloaded from a ship in Amsterdam.
Coal waste is a consequence of this consumption; the Mine Safety and Health Administration has estimated that there are over 235 sludge ponds throughout the region with the potential to break into an underground mine, as the Martin County pond did in 2000.
There are sixteen chapters made up of the same number of articles, each dealing with a different topic of technological innovation in a variety of fields.
Furthermore, as this film was slightly soluble, it gradually washed away, leaving no way for marine life to attach itself to the ship.
It uses reverse osmotic pressure which encourages water to filter from high concentration of contamination to low concentrations of contamination through added pressure.
Near the turn of the century, Nr from guano and sodium nitrate deposits was harvested and exported from the arid Pacific islands and South American deserts.
UVC irradiation is a noncontact, nonchemical solution that can be used across a range of instruments.
After the first step the residual is sulfophenyl(di)carboxylates (SP(d)Cs), a large molecule which can be involved in the second step.
The plan had four main elements: consistent reports to the public and the Ministers, reducing Sulphur Dioxide in the seven provinces, promoting continuous scientific research and monitoring, and preventive measures for non-affected areas.
However, some approaches to restoring the forest may displace of a little less than 2,000 people who hold land deeds in the forest.
Death Gao Gao died on 24 November 2025, at approximately 33 years of age, at the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in Sichuan, China.
Ducts can be fabricated from a variety of materials including carbon steel, stainless steel, PVC, and fiberglass.
SBC also formed a cooperative of women who live in Batan Grande that produce hand-felted animals to financially assist the local community as well as connect it with the conservation efforts.
The Economical Environmentalist is a book by Prashant Vaze about the effects of climate change and what practical measures can be taken to reduce the amount of energy one consumes.
In fact, due to long-term impacts on food webs, Nr inputs are widely considered the most critical pollution problem in marine systems.
During the biodegradation, several specific bacteria and oxygen are required in both omega-oxidation of the alkyl chain and the benzene ring cleaving process, so this biodegradation can only happen in aerobic conditions.
Properties The plasticrust samples from both locations were studied using fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy analysis.
In a statement they said the outcome was "consistent with the evidence in this case that Roundup does not cause cancer and is not responsible for the plaintiff's illness".
The panelists wrote that more study is needed on the contaminants inside the water tanks, that TEPCO only took small samples from a quarter of the tanks, which showed large variations in readings, and used commercial pellets, not tritium-exposed fish, as food source for its experiments.
Reasons for title The term "The Deniers" is controversial even among some of those profiled in the book, which often raises the question of why Solomon would choose it as the title for both his book and its related newspaper series.
Male rabbits exposed to vinclozolin in utero or during infancy did not show a sexual interest in females or did not ejaculate.
Lego's partnership with Shell dates back to the 1960s, although a fictional oil company called Octan featured as the corporation headed by the villain President Business in The Lego Movie.
Half of the top pesticides used in growing cotton in the US are deemed likely to be carcinogenic by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
It is endemic to the Peruvian Andes and has been recorded in and near the Pui–Pui Protection Forest.
Other major firms that followed Nike in their pledge to not use arctic trade routes include Gap, H&M, Columbia, and Kering Group.
Many factors are taken into account when assessing conservation status—not simply the number of individuals remaining, but the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates, and known threats.
Other retailers, such as Patagonia, have made efforts to create more sustainable clothing by using eco-friendly materials, such as organically farmed cotton and polyester made from recycled plastic bottles.
Stunden Bower uses this unique context to focus on the development of liberalism on the Prairies, from the late nineteenth into the twentieth centuries, highlighting tensions between private property and state intervention and between agricultural development and wetland conservation.
The documentary then goes on to present NATO's bombing of Yugoslav chemical factories and oil refineries as "crimes against the environment".
It is possible that Hoechst wanted to avoid license fees for DDT to Schering or the original developer J.
Nearly 75% of Estonia's air pollution was reported to come from two oil shale-based thermal power stations operating near Narva.
The Shamba Raiders: Memories of a Game Warden is Bruce Kinloch's account of his experiences in late colonial East Africa.
He said the film was "more despair-inducing than instructive", but was optimistic about its possible impact on the fashion culture, citing the effect that films such as Super Size Me and Fast Food Nation had on the fast food industry.
Making exploitation of existing sites more efficient through investments or social and technical innovation EDCs are caused by the unfair distribution of environmental costs and benefits.
Consequently, in January 2017, the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed (SCoPAFF) of the European Commission DG "Health and food safety" decided to not renew its regulatory approval.
The main source of the haze has been smoke from fires occurring in Sumatra and Borneo which dispersed over a wide area.
Stochastic health effects occur by chance, generally occurring without a threshold level of dose, whose probability is proportional to the dose and whose severity is independent of the dose, such as cancer and genetic effects.
Impact of climate change Many families have lost their homes, fields and lives due to climate change in Serbia.
Bimetallic materials Bimetallic materials are materials that are made out of two different metals or alloys that are tightly bonded together.
It provides a measure of the pressure that a population places on the land available for agriculture.
Detailing the rise of Serbian president Aleksandar Vučić and several of his government's affairs, the film suggests that change is no longer a matter of choice, but a question of survival.
Some locations in Africa have also been the sourcing of dumping plastic waste from the Global North.
A COFR is issued to vessel operators once they have shown the can pay cleanup and damage costs up to the liability limits required by the Oil Pollution Act.
These chemicals have been known to produce extremely toxic byproducts, including dioxins and hexachlorobenzenes.
Carracino commented:"Well, I'd say maybe 80 percent of most of the waste shipped is being dumped illegal.
The book examines the history of settlement and farming in the unique landscape of southern Manitoba, notable for its poor drainage and thus high levels of moisture that contrast with the aridity of much of the Great Plains.
Avian studies The consumption of plants with unusual content of phytoestrogens, under drought conditions, has been shown to decrease fertility in quail.
These and other market factors frequently pull development to open land near traditionally desirable communities and away from urban infill sites.
We can put into place permeable streets and parking lots which help allow for the pollution from vehicles and other runoff nutrients to be soaked up and/or slowed.
Removing trees surrounding stream banks prevents shading of the water body, which raises the temperature of riverbanks and rivers.
Additionally, since alpine regions, where degradation typically occurs, are commonly of high elevation, they are more easily affected by climate and its changes.
Application for an incidental take permit are subject to certain requirements, including the preparation by the permit applicant of a conservation plan.
A 2000 review of the toxicological data on Roundup concluded that "for terrestrial uses of Roundup minimal acute and chronic risk was predicted for potentially exposed nontarget organisms".
The implementation of the framework guidelines is staggered until 2045, depending on the size of the sewage treatment plant and its population equivalents (PE).
This document has been criticized for setting unrealistic goals, and also, by focusing on the entire basin (south-west Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan), for implicitly giving up on the Aral Sea and the people living downstream in Karakalpakstan.
The Los Angeles Times' Martin Tsai criticized Morgan for interviewing his own executive producers, saying "the effects of fertilizers ...
The article stated that the list was made up for species that appear to be locally common in North America, but is undergoing non-cyclic declines.
In his Reasons and Persons, Derek Parfit was among the first to spell out and popularize this implication in the academic literature, coining it the "repugnant conclusion".
A kawaii mascot for the dump, Tritium-kun, was even created in hopes of improving public opinion on the issue; it was quickly scrapped after backlash.
Humanity's demand on the planet has more than doubled over the past 45 years as a result of population growth and increasing individual consumption.
For example, in northwestern Europe anthrosols commonly have plaggic or terric (strongly affected by manure) horizons, and together they cover some 500,000 hectares.
However Equatorial Guinea’s forest management has improved in recent years, with protected areas significantly increasing decreasing deforestation.
Ranks at various levels may be concatenated to combine geographical levels, and also to address infraspecific taxa (subspecies and plant varieties).
Types of plastics found in the Mediterranean Sea Plastics accounts for 80% of waste dispersed in the marine and coastal environment of the Mediterranean Sea.
As a field of practice, people working on conflict resolution focus on the collaboration, and consensus building among stakeholders.
Macdonald Prize (now the CHA Best Scholarly Book in Canadian History Prize) for the best book in Canadian history from the Canadian Historical Association, and was short-listed for the Association's 2010 François-Xavier Garneau Medal.
According to a Canadian Department of National Defence document acquired through the Access to Information Act, over 3.2 million liters and kilograms of chemical defoliants were used at the base between the years 1956 to 1984.
The book has four sections: "The Background", "The Problems", "The Technocures" and "The Way to Go".
delegation argued that a weapon, by definition, is any device used to injure, defeat, or destroy living beings, structures, or systems, and Agent Orange did not qualify under that definition.
Also labelled as household food production, is a traditional activity persisting in the countries of the Global North.
Synopsis The book is divided into three sections, titled "Torch", "Axe", and "Engine", roughly corresponding to the pre-contact, exploration, and industrial periods of Canadian history.
Cationic surfactant can bind to the inner membrane of bacteria, and by this way disorganize the bacteria through their long alkyl chain.
Uses The dominant use of perchlorates is as oxidizers in propellants for rockets, fireworks and highway flares.
It highlights the summer of 1969 when Davidson carved and raised a totem pole in his home village for the first time in nearly a century, marking the start of a "renaissance" for Indigenous art in popular culture.
Subsequent to their punitive victory, the British gradually colonised the area, eventually incorporating the region into Colonial Nigeria.
Abstracting and indexing According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 5.334.
These batteries have lower energy density and charge-discharge efficiency than lithium-ion batteries, but are significantly cheaper.
Against this background, cyberbiosecurity measures are becoming increasingly important to prevent or protect against the misuse of innovations in the life sciences, including to reduce the proliferation risk of biological weapons.
A report concluded that "plasticrust abundance may depend on the local levels of nearshore plastic debris, wave exposure and tidal amplitude." This was based on the abundance of plasticrusts compared to the other listed factors at each location where plasticrust was detected or searched for.
Black Faces, White Spaces challenges assumptions that the environmental movement makes about universal values, individualism, and agency, arguing that they reflect a class-based and racial power structure that denies participation from people of color.
Schuring, PhD and PE, professor of civil and environmental engineering at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, developed in conjunction with Thomas M.
The company estimates that the mine would take approximately 10 years to construct and would have an operational life of approximately 40 years which would be followed by 5 to 10 years of reclamation activities.
Exposure to these byproducts has been linked to increased cases in cancer and blood diseases, especially non-Hodgkin lymphoma and leukemia.
The documentary presents positive examples of countries that were able to change their political and economic systems but also shows stories of rebellion in Serbia itself, in which small groups of well-organized individuals were able to beat the system, which the author considers "rotten".
ports Civil penalties of up to $32,500 per day Seizure or forfeiture of the vessel See also Shoreline Managers == Notes ==
Hunters voiced concerns as did the Hawaiian Audubon Society who were supported by Governor George Ariyoshi.
Such chemicals include aminopurine, which induces an AT to GC transition, while nitrosoguanidine, bisulfite, and N4-hydroxycytidine may induce a GC to AT transition.
See also Captive breeding List of giant pandas List of individual bears Footnotes and references External links San Diego Zoo Giant Panda Research Station
In other words, Shifting Baselines suggests that the push to colonize Mars is, above all, a program to colonize our minds, to make it seem acceptable for governments to ignore the environmental catastrophes happening here and now.
Herman Daly's concept of a steady-state economy In the 1970s, Herman Daly became the world's leading proponent of a steady-state economy.
Safety Data Sheets (U.S.) Safety Data Sheets (SDS), or Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) as they are also known, are documents detailing Health and Safety-Related information regarding a chemical or substance.
It is likely that social and environmental issues will increasingly drive economic costs associated with supply and demand patterns.
During the phoretic stage, Varroa prefer to attach to nurse bees as this results in higher fitness leading into the reproductive stage.
In such a scenario, improvements in the well-being of one group or country may come at the expense of another, leading to conflict.
A Geography of Blood: Unearthing Memory from a Prairie Landscape is a 2012 book by Canadian author Candace Savage.
The book was instrumental in the designation of Adirondack Park in New York in 1892 and in the development of the United States National Forest from 1891 onwards.
Awards Amin Bhatia won the Canadian Screen Music Award for Best Original Score for a Short Film in 2023, and Brian Eimer was a Canadian Screen Award nominee for Best Sound Design in a Documentary at the 12th Canadian Screen Awards in 2024.
The rise of non-farming specialists such as craftsmen and scribes accelerated economic growth and technological progress.
Developed country citizens currently consume as much as 25 tonnes of those four key resources each year, while the average person in India consumes four tonnes annually.
In late 2022, several environmental organizations in Canada filled a complaint with the Canadian Competition Bureau that the SFI was engaged in misleading advertising practices by falsely claiming that it's certifications did not promote sustainable forestry.
Furthermore, these conditions can lead to food and water insecurity, displacement and migration from coastal areas, an increase in transmission of water-borne diseases, and more.
He was a visiting lecturer for universities in many countries in particular – in the United States of America, Africa and Latin America.
Fuller states that for every 100,000 fellowships given out one person will come up with something so valuable that it will pay for the remaining 99,999 fellowships.
The name Beijing, which means 'Northern Capital' (from the Chinese characters 北 běi for 'north' and 京 jīng for 'capital'), was applied to the city in 1403 during the Ming dynasty to distinguish the city from Nanjing (南京, 'Southern Capital').
Reviewers at the Library Journal recommended the book for all environmental collections and the audiobook for most public and academic library audiobook collections.
As part of this framework, generic Soil Guideline Values (SGVs) have currently been derived for ten contaminants to be used as "intervention values".
BioWatch is a US government program to detect biological agents present in the environment through a system of filters.
Reception The book was reviewed in the journal Endangered Species, the ALA magazine Booklist, Publishers Weekly, Books in Canada, African Business, the Royal Geographical Society's Geographical magazine.
Practical relevance Population ethical problems are particularly likely to arise when making large-scale policy-decisions, but they can also affect how we should evaluate certain choices made by individuals.
The documentary starred environmentalists like Wangari Maathai, Vandana Shiva, Gary Vaynerchuk, Paul Stamets, and Bill Logan.
If the resulting chimeric mouse contained the genetic change in their germline, this could then be passed on offspring.
These barriers are effective in relatively level water, however; any significant waves allow contaminants to escape the boom and impact the surrounding environment.
Due to in many places drinking water is also extracted from surface waters, or the substances also reach the groundwater via the water, they are also found in raw water and must be laboriously removed by drinking water treatment.
Health effects are an important consideration in many areas, such as hygiene, pollution studies, occupational safety and health, ([nutrition]) and health sciences in general.
Although ketoconazole is a relatively weak antiandrogen, high doses side-effects lead to reduced levels of androgens from both the testicles and adrenal glands.
The coastal development project includes the construction of a giant seawall along the coast, building a water reservoir, and the reclamation of land.
Rather than give credence to claims of innate European superiority and the like, Crosby explains the relative ease with which Europeans conquered the Neo-Europes as being a product of biological and ecological processes.
Wet Prairie: People, Land, and Water in Agricultural Manitoba is a 2011 book by Canadian historian Shannon Stunden Bower.
Storage or uptake of a metal faster than it is metabolized and excreted leads to the accumulation of that metal.
Thus European whalers (the Basques, especially, were known for their expertise) had to seek out the New World to catch whales.
With this category system, Near Threatened and Conservation Dependent were both subcategories of the category "Lower Risk".
— The legal status of Northback's proposal for the Grassy Mountain Coal Project was under scrutiny due to conflicting interpretations of its "advanced project" designation.
Common containment measures include secondary containment structures (such as berms, dikes, and trays), absorbent materials, drainage controls, and portable containment systems.
Culture and livelihood of Sundarban residents Entire communities in the Sundarbans depend directly on the forest and its waterways for their livelihood, from fisheries to honey production.
Industrial exhaust ducts are pipe systems that connect hoods to industrial chimneys through other components of exhaust systems like fans, collectors, etc.
The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History is a 2014 nonfiction book written by Elizabeth Kolbert and published by Henry Holt and Company.
Article types The journal publishes full research papers, communications, perspectives, critical reviews, frontier reviews, tutorial reviews, comments, and highlights.
Such a ban has been in place in Munich, Germany, since 1991, applying to all city facilities and events.
Homologous recombination Homologous recombination can be used to produce specific mutation in an organism.
There is also a lack of documentation and understanding of climate change in Serbia and its potential impacts on biodiversity.
To the south are located the Bălți Plain and the Middle Prut Plain, with an average of 200 meters (656 ft) and a maximum altitude of 250 meters (820 ft).
Justice Brennan also expressed concern that the Court was extending patent protections into areas not expressly authorized by Congress and that this constituted an inappropriate extension of monopoly patent power.
At a few places above 1,500 meters, the remnants of juniper forests (protected by the state) and areas of Euphorbia candelabrum (a chandelier-type spiny plant) occur.
Dietary intake of isoflavones at levels greater than in typical Asian diets does not affect estrogen, testosterone, sperm or semen amounts.
A definitive link between fine particulate pollution and higher death rates in urban areas was established by the Harvard Six Cities study, published in 1993.
The main theme of the documentary is a song called "One Candle" featuring the vocals of Australian singer-songwriter, Sia.
By returning shipments on standard shipping, the positive contribution to environment is being taken back.
See also Conservation status Listing priority number References External links https://explorer.natureserve.org/
See also List of environmental books References https://web.archive.org/web/20170328014135/http://www.temple.edu/tempress/titles/1788_reg.html External links https://web.archive.org/web/20170328014135/http://www.temple.edu/tempress/titles/1788_reg.html
This ruling led to the immediate suspension of various projects (mainly housing, which aggravated the ongoing Dutch housing shortage), and the government had to urgently seek solutions.
After years of trying in vain to decontaminate the ship enough that it could be safely sold for scrap, the Navy ultimately packed the ship full of nuclear waste and scuttled the radioactive hulk off California near the Farallon Islands in January 1951.
Reviewer David Brownstein called the book a "marvellously encyclopedic synthesis of a vast secondary literature on a complex topic." Reviewed in BC Studies, Philip Van Huizen praised the "elegant and evocative" writing of the author, as well as his use of narrative.
In mprinciple, ISCR can be used to remediate a variety of organic compounds, including some that are resistant to natural degradation.
Gene silencing For gene knockout investigations, RNA interference (RNAi), a more recent method, also known as gene silencing, has gained popularity.
Focusing on the decades following 1790, she argues that families had accumulated wealth to set their children up on farms, but that land was not available until after the federal government broke the armed strength of Tecumseh in the Ohio country.
Artificially restored forests, in particular, are highly unlikely to compare to their old-growth counterparts in species composition.
Licorice, or Glycyrrhiza glabra native to southern Europe, India, and parts of Asia has shown antiandrogen activity in male rats.
Northwest of it are the Ciulucului Hills (average 250 meters or 820 feet, max 388 meters or 1,273 feet).
Article 7 controversy Article 7 of the document, entitled, "Obligation not to cause significant harm," requires that member states "in utilizing an international watercourse in their territories ...
This list contains media that discuss the intersection of veganism and/or a plant-based diet with nutrition, health, ethics, and environmentalism/climate change.
Summary The film traces Davidson's artistic career from his youth in Haida Gwaii and Vancouver studying with masters such as Bill Reid, and follows his education in the arts and in the history of the Indigenous Haida people from whom he is descended.
She highlights this expanding bureaucratic and scientific state presence as being part of a larger process of "rural colonization," but also shows how private groups and individuals continued to play an important role in adapting and implementing conservation practices.
Biosurveillance is an aspect of biodefense relating to the detection of biological threats, including bioterrorist threats.
Applications Nonylphenol is used in manufacturing antioxidants, lubricating oil additives, laundry and dish detergents, emulsifiers, and solubilizers.
The same soil may achieve several successive steady state conditions during its existence, as exhibited by the Pygmy forest sequence in Mendocino County, California.
The Big Island is a rural community and there are a lot of people there who are not very sophisticated, as you know.
Since these rivers are being threatened at their source, they are not providing as much water for the many people that need it further downriver.
The land contains more than 2,400 acres (970 ha) of the Oak Flat Campground, an area dotted with petroglyphs and historic and prehistoric sites.
Village heads are receiving funds from company executives and this has led to hesitation among local residents to speak up.
Accountability and personnel The Minister of State for Social Care at the Department of Health and Social Care, Helen Whately, has oversight of the JBC.
Bisphenol AF (BPAF) is a fluorinated organic compound that is an analogue of bisphenol A in which the two methyl groups are replaced with trifluoromethyl groups.
Levels are generally low, but can be elevated in buildings with "leaky" foundations or areas with soils rich in uranium.
Because we have found a new source of energy, and destruction, in the atomic nucleus, we face the threat of nuclear war or, even if we avoid that, the permeation of our environment with dangerous radiation and nuclear wastes.
Ducts are low-pressure pneumatic conveyors to convey dust, particles, shavings, fumes, or chemical hazardous components from air in the vicinity to a shop floor or any other specific locations like tanks, sanding machines, or laboratory hoods.
Limitations The National Institutes of Health discusses some important limitations of this technique.
Ultimately, Loo argues that wildlife conservation was shaped by, and ultimately shaped in turn, Canadians' values about their relationship with the natural world.
Slaughter tapping is an obsolete method of extracting large quantities of natural latex from rubber trees in a forest environment.
Transboundary air pollution occurs when pollution created in one country negatively impacting another country.
Awards 2009 - American Society of Landscape Architects Honor Research Award 2011 - Society for Ecological Restoration Theodore M.
Working with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) they then produced the Global Tree Assessment which concluded that more than 17,500 tree species (c.30%) are threatened with extinction.
Known events A fern spike followed a fungal spike after the Permian–Triassic extinction event (252 Ma).
It comes from standard French liane, itself from an Antilles French dialect word meaning 'to sheave'.
Previously the endangered painted hunting dog, Lycaon pictus, occurred in Burkina Faso within the Arly-Singou ecosystem, but, although last sightings were made in Arli National Park, the species is considered extirpated throughout Burkina Faso.
At UNESCO, Brito leads global programmes across biosphere reserves, hydrology, earth sciences, science policy, and basic sciences, guiding the organization’s work on sustainability, climate resilience, and science capacity worldwide.
In Europe there are no dedicated epiphytic plants using roots, but rich assemblages of mosses and lichens grow on trees in damp areas (mainly the western coastal fringe), and the common polypody fern grows epiphytically along branches.
Australia In the state of South Australia, oyster reefs mostly created by the Australian flat oyster (Ostrea angasi, or Southern mud oyster) once spread along 1,500 kilometres (930 mi) of coastline, but by the 21st century, there were none left.
History In 1970, royal approval designated the establishment of Langtang National Park as the first protected area in the Himalayas.
λxj(t) will be determined by many things, including habitat, intraspecific competition, and interspecific competition at x.
Fluorescence provides information on overall photosynthetic performance with implications for related carbon sequestration.
MacArthur Foundation Fellowship (2021) Citation for Leadership and Achievement, Council for Scientific Society Presidents (2022) AAAS Fellow in the section on Agriculture, Food & Renewable Resources (2024) Top Agri-food Pioneer, World Food Prize Foundation (2024) == References ==
Alien plants in temperate weed communities: prehistoric and recent invaders occupy different habitats.
To obtain gnotobiotic plants, researchers sterilize seeds using chemical agents (e.g., ethanol, sodium hypochlorite (bleach), hydrogen peroxide) on the surface of the seed.
Firstly, flowers communicate with their pollinators by scent; insects use this scent to determine how far away a flower is, to approach it, and to identify where to land and finally to feed.
The fly is viviparous, which means the female gives birth directly to live maggots, the larvae, as opposed to giving birth to eggs that later form into larvae.
The Herbarium is an active correspondent to the Inventory of Rare and Endangered Vascular Plants of California, a list of endangered plants published by the California Native Plant Society (CNPS).
Reasons why marine animals go extinct include interactions with fisheries, capturing, pollution, habitat degradation, climate change, and overharvesting.
An area that has many functions, such as human living space, and is home to other living things, whether plant or animal, can be considered a biosphere reserve.
The United Nations began preparatory meetings in 2004 to lay the foundation for an Implementing Agreement to UNCLOS addressing governance and regulatory gaps.
Project goal In the long term, sustainable use of the soil must be guaranteed in order to meet the needs of the world's population.
He is a professor of biology and environmental science and regional planning at Washington State University.[1] and was past president (1988-1990) of the Society for Human Ecology.
To inhibit additional sand encroachment, the Ngari Prefecture formally initiated the Shiquan River Sand Control Project (Chinese: 狮泉河盆地生物防沙治沙工程) in 1994.
In recent years, progress has been made in the UK to set up allowances and less stringent tests for heritage varieties on a B national list, but this is still under consideration.
The most common one is that the allele is soon lost altogether, but the other possibility is that the allele survives and within a few generations has become much more dispersed throughout the population.
Evolutionary, if two species are more similar than some limit L, a third species will converge towards the nearer of the two competitors.
In addition, the Herbarium's active collection program generates thousands of additional specimens a year.
Jasmonic acid induces the release of VOCs and EFN which attract parasitic wasps and predatory mites to detect and feed on herbivores.
She worked there until the founding of the Department of Biology at the Faculty of Philosophy in Sarajevo (1954).
For instance, epiphytes on tree trunks in rain forests are aided by the trees because they provide a surface for their growth.
Bradley Anholt is a Canadian ecologist, currently a Canada Research Chair in experimental ecology at University of Victoria.
Phosphorus is important for all organisms because it is a component of DNA and RNA and is involved in cell metabolism as a component of ATP and ADP.
This is overseen by the NBN Trust which is responsible for the NBN Gateway which in May 2016 passed 127 million records.
In political economy Some scholars have applied coevolution to propose non-linear theories in political economy.
Papers reflect results of original research (major papers, short communications) or review important fields in tropical ecology.
Pagophila is maintained as a unique genus because of the bird's morphological, behavioural and ecological differences from these species.
The best known methods for constructing utilization distributions are the so-called bivariate Gaussian or normal distribution kernel density methods.
Other reasons that follow this are overexploitation, invasive species, pollution, and climate change.
These two scenarios represent potential mechanisms in which viruses can be introduced into new marine environments.
River Murray and associated wetlands, floodplains and groundwater systems, from the junction with the Darling River to the sea, approval disallowed.
The ABMP will facilitate comparisons among geographic regions, and will feed information into an adaptive management process so that resource managers can evaluate long-term sustainability of biodiversity and natural resources.
The forests of northern Albania are similar to those of Continental Europe, in contrast, the forests of southern Albania share similarities with those of the Mediterranean Basin.
Heirloom varieties are an increasingly popular way for gardeners and small farmers to connect with traditional forms of agriculture and the crops grown in these systems.
Effects range from disruption of migration and travel to hunting sites, finding and accessing roosts, and foraging behaviour.
The bark pH, degree of bark shedding, the presence of milk sap and the density and size of bark lenticels influence the occurrence of epiphytes.
Ecolo Japan is a political think tank/Institute, which aims to expand Green politics all over the country.
This two-pronged approach of increasing local supply and balancing trade between regions represents a comprehensive management of global water resources that only these decentralized treatments allow in a way similar to the carbon offset market.
Reynolds , limnetic ecology 1995 Ramon Margalef , marine ecology 1996 John Lawton , terrestrial ecology 1997 Maciej Gliwicz , limnetic ecology 1998 Richard T.
It is often markedly different from the terrain either side and may consist of a morass of shrubs and murky water.
For example, several tens of kilometers of the former coastal railway of the Chemins de Fer de Provence have been converted into a cycle path between Toulon and Pramousquier (in the municipality of Le Lavandou).
This can lead to significant consequences, with entire ecosystems being profoundly impacted and sometimes simplified due to prolonged overshoot.
The most popular, which invokes the disruptive selection model, was first put forward by John Maynard Smith in 1966.
Coffin flies have been found on corpses years after death, and in 2011 an exhumed coffin in central Spain revealed a large number of coffin flies inhabiting the coffin and feeding on the cadaver 18 years after death—far beyond the 3–5 year postmortem intervals previously recorded.
The soil is often shallow and can be toxic due to high heavy metal concentrations such as nickel, cobalt and chromium.
The VCR/LTER project's research activities focus on the mosaic of transitions and steady-state systems that comprise the barrier-island/lagoon/mainland landscape of the Eastern Shore of Virginia.
Reyniers, early work at LOBUND focused on obtaining gnotobiotes by sterilizing animals and maintaining the animals using high-pressure steam sterilized steel isolators; however, later work at the institute shifted the focus of the field towards establishing colonies of animals born germ-free.
Text taken from Global Forest Resources Assessment 2025​, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO).
Silvilization is a conceptual framework or a vision of the world whereby the forest, a metaphor for primordial living, is the best place for human development and fulfilment.
Invasive species and other disturbances have become more common in forests in the last several decades.
Far more students participated in field courses, collecting data for more than 40 diploma, masters, bachelors and Ph.D.
A simple example of this is permutation, which was first described in plants, where shapes or colors of seeds can alter a homologous allele.
the net worth of our planet, is a debated concept both in terms of the definition of value, as well as the scope of "Earth".
The goal of CERES is to improve environmental analysis and planning by integrating natural and cultural resource information from multiple sources, then making it available on the World Wide Web.
The price on the services that the world's ecosystems provide to humans has been estimated in 1997 to be $33 trillion per annum, with a confidence interval of from $16 trillion to $54 trillion.
Methods to restore coral reefs have involved the gardening and transplanting of coral developed at different sites to locations previously inhabited by coral, as well as the use of green engineering methods to help the coral become more suited to the changing environment.
Established by the Maryland Reef Initiative in 2001, this reef covers 1.3 square nautical miles of ocean floor and is located 80 feet (24.4 m) below the surface.
Contributions The FMAP project coordinated major data synthesis efforts to derive global trends and patterns in marine biodiversity.
Criticisms were addressed in a later publication, which gave an estimate of $125 trillion/yr for ecosystem services in 2011, which would make them twice as valuable as the GDP, with a yearly loss of 4.3–20.2 trillion/yr.
They are classified as family heirlooms, commercial heirlooms, mystery heirlooms, or created heirlooms.
A successful application for a research grant by Linsenmair at the Fritz Thyssen Foundation led to the expansion and transformation into a permanent station, after various bureaucratic hurdles in Germany and Côte d'Ivoire, which delayed the construction of the field station approximately 8 years.
The 2022 United Nations Biodiversity Conference emphasised the importance of global collaboration to halt biodiversity loss, marking the adoption of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF).
These models can be fit using binomial generalized linear models or binomial generalized linear mixed models, with the resources, or environmental and geographic data, as explanatory variables.
The Woman represents The Mother Earth, who provides us with food, shelter and every basic necessity of human and other living creatures.
Martin, published "Neotropical Anachronisms: The Fruits the Gomphotheres Ate" in the journal Science.
With few exceptions, all the practitioners of eusociality are insects of the orders Hymenoptera (ants, bees, and wasps), Isoptera (termites), Thysanoptera (thrips), and Hemiptera (aphids).
Sediment and Nutrient Trapping – Sediment and nutrient trapping is achieved by constructing or placing structures designed to slow water flow and promote the buildup of sediment.
Challenges with the GBF are expected to arise due with unequal implementation due to a lack of specificity.
Since 2023, with the support of Costa Salvaje and the National Commission of Natural Protected Areas (CONANP), the Guardians have implemented a monthly monitoring program in the mangroves, recording the condition of the three types of mangroves, red, white and black.
Sandveld and hardveld Sandveld Sandveld, in the general sense of the word, is a type of veld characterised by dry, sandy soil, typical of certain areas of the Southern African region.
"Interannual changes in seafloor surficial geology at an artificial reef site on the inner continental shelf".
Civil and corporate responsibilities aim to control resource consumption and manage waste to achieve a net positive impact.
clarkii is eaten in China, Cambodia, Thailand, Europe, Africa, the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the Caribbean.
It has been used as a bioindicator/indicator species to study levels of the metals selenium, copper and cadmium.
Notably, in 2006, the region was designated as a Marine Protected Area (MPA) with the dual objectives of safeguarding indigenous oyster populations and conserving Tamarix species.
Description A lagg is an area of wetland, especially at the edge of raised bogs, in which water collects.
Thermophytes are able to survive extreme temperatures as their cells contain an “unorganized nucleus”.
Particle analysis Particle levels in water (or air) can be measured with a turbidity meter and analyzed with a particle counter.
The ammonia could be converted to nitrogen by introducing bacteria such as Nitrosomonas, Pseudomonas and Clostridium, resulting in an Earth-like nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere.
However, a direct correlation between organic matter deposition rates and SMTZ depth has yet to be established.
This means using practices that promote the sustainable use of natural ingredients, while ensuring that all contributors along the supply chain are paid fair prices and share the benefits derived from the use of biodiversity.
The etymological origin is older modern Dutch veldt, a spelling that the Dutch abandoned in favour of veld during the 19th century, decades before the first Afrikaans dictionary.
Significance Because fern spikes generally coincide with certain disasters such as meteorite strikes and volcanic eruptions, their presence in the fossil record can indicate those events.
The Green Score City Index is an ongoing empirical study of the anthropogenic impacts cities exert on land and ecosystems within city limits.
Hutchinson concluded that the mean ratio, 1.3, can be understood as the variation of attribute separation needed in order to preserve species coexistence at the same trophic level but in differing niches.
Ecology Trees are an important part of the terrestrial ecosystem, providing essential habitats including many kinds of forest for communities of organisms.
Haeckel also explains that with one ecosystem, its biota is shaped by environmental factors (such as water, soil, and geographical features) and interaction among living things; the original idea of a biotope was closely related to evolutional theory.
For the European Union, land take is estimated approximately about to 1.2 million hectares in 21 EU countries over the period 1990–2006.
As these toxins are passed up the food chain they accumulate in fatty tissue and become increasingly concentrated in predators (see bioaccumulation).
The founding editor was Bai-Lian (Larry) Li (University of California at Riverside) and the current editor-in-chief is Sergei Petrovskii (University of Leicester).
Importance of nativity in conservation When ecological restoration projects are undertaken to a native ecological system disturbed by economic development or other events, they may be historically inaccurate, incomplete, or pay little or no attention to ecotype accuracy or type conversions.
The range includes a portion of California grassland and California woodlands with blue oak, interior live oak, and bull pine.
In 2017, Mamane was awarded the United Nations Environment Programme Young Champions of the Earth Prize.
The tail may measure 121.5 to 161 mm (4.78 to 6.34 in) in males and 143.5 to 165 mm (5.65 to 6.50 in) in females, with 1,408 owls averaging 146.3 mm (5.76 in).
The name was coined by Jared Diamond in 1974, as an allusion to both the itinerant lifestyle of the tramp, and the then-popular band Supertramp.
The theory While the capacity for acclimatization has been documented in thousands of species, researchers still know very little about how and why organisms acclimate in the way that they do.
94% of microplastic items present in the Mediterranean Sea are thought to be in the seabed, 5% on beaches and 1% on surface waters.
In informal classification In addition to its use in ecology, the term "forb" may be used for subdividing popular guides to wildflowers, distinguishing them from other categories such as grasses, sedges, shrubs, and trees.
Targeted monitoring and enforcement was put forward as an explanation of the Harrington paradox by Winston Harrington in his 1988 article.
In the matter of death by poisoning, the putrefaction of the body is chemically delayed by poisons such as antimony, arsenic, carbolic acid (phenol), nux vomica (plant), strychnine (pesticide), and zinc chloride.
"First account on the diversity of Ophryotrocha (Annelida, Dorvilleidae) from a mammal-fall in the deep-Atlantic Ocean with the description of three new species." Systematics and Biodiversity 13.6 (2015): 555-570.
Joel Kwamena Abraham is an American ecologist and professor at California State University Fullerton.
Biocompatible planet (BP): A planet possessing the necessary physical parameters for life to flourish on its surface.
Determining if a system is scaling with allometry To determine whether isometry or allometry is present, an expected relationship between variables needs to be determined to compare data to.
External links International Year of Biodiversity Convention on Biological Diversity Internet sources for the International Year of Biodiversity (by vifabio)
Species migration Species naturally migrate and expand their ranges, utilising new habitats and resources, e.g.
In captivity, they have lived 10 to 12 years; while the average lifespan of a wild kit fox is 5.5 years.
There are carnivorous plants as well as herbivores and carnivores that consume plants and animals, respectively.
They became known by the present name on 18 December 2003 after Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam joined the organisation between 1995 and 1999.
Usage FACE circles have been used across in parts of the United States in temperate forests and also in stands of aspen in Italy.
In certain contexts in ecology, guild membership may often be more important than the taxonomic relationships between organisms.
Scientific highlights New discovered method estimates that Earth is home to 8.7 million species, of which 2.1 million live in the ocean.
This is an example of a plant which makes rapid growth and suppresses other species by monopolising root and shoot space and shading out the opposition.
As the larvae are placed in the test tubes to explore the container thoroughly, they relate visual cues to tactile stimuli and distinguish between a closed and an open container.
In 2016, the International Astronomical Union named a 9.8km wide crater on Mars after the village, as a tribute.
Foster proposed the simple explanation that smaller creatures get larger when predation pressure is relaxed because of the absence of some of the predators of the mainland, and larger creatures become smaller when food resources are limited because of land area constraints.
A large amount of thermophytes are algae, more specifically blue-green algae, also referred to as cyanobacteria.
Lidia Arthur Brito was appointed UNESCO Assistant Director General for Natural Sciences in November 2023.
It also works closely together with the park management (OIPR, Office Ivorien des Parcs et Reserves) on matters of conservation.
Size and scope The total project cost for Earthpark was estimated to be $155 million, though over a third of that financial demand was met.
Darkling beetles (tenebrionids), woodlice, and banana moth larvae are also facultative scavengers of dead plant material.
Education Kleindorfer holds a bachelor's degree in Biological Basis of Behavior from the University of Pennsylvania, a PhD in Zoology from the University of Vienna, and a postdoc in Medicine from the University of Washington School of Medicine.
Pompton Lakes History- The EWA is currently pushing for a Superfund status for Pompton Lakes, a community located in northern New Jersey.
This widespread misinterpretation has led to several articles being published which detail what the LPI does and doesn't show, and how to correctly interpret the trend.
They later tried to network with NGOs for human rights, international cooperation and sustainable development.
A metasystem transition is the emergence, through evolution, of a higher level of organization or control.
Australia Although once hunted extensively for its fur, the common brushtail possum is largely protected throughout Australia.
Alliance for Zero Extinction is an initiative of scientific organizations and conservation groups who co-operate to focus on the most threatened endemic species of the world.
Primary production is often measured using three variables: the biomass (or amount in weight) of the phytoplankton, the availability of light, and the rate of carbon fixation.
However, they can only implement measures within their own respective mandates and cooperation is lacking.
The forest reserve was degazetted a number of times and subsequent development brought down the size of the reserve to a 857-acre (3.5 km2).
In addition, respiration costs with respect to oxygen consumption is scaled in the order of M 0.75 {\displaystyle M^{0.75}} .
The Alberta Biodiversity Monitoring Institute (ABMI) is the key component of the Joint Canada-Alberta Monitoring Plan.
A team of more that 20 scientists identified protocols to survey a broad diversity of biota, habitat structures, vegetation communities, and landscapes patterns within Alberta.
The main tool to accomplish this to date has been to pay farmers directly to set-aside portions of their land that would otherwise be in production.
The Red Queen hypothesis predicts that sexual reproduction allows a host to stay just ahead of its parasite, similar to the Red Queen's race in Through the Looking-Glass: "it takes all the running you can do, to keep in the same place".
During Hasegawa's doctoral studies at the University of Tokyo, she also studied Japanese macaques, as well as Tanzanian chimpanzees.
It is a partnership between the North Pennines Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty Partnership, Yorkshire Peat Partnership and the Moors for the Future Partnership.
Plant patents are based on the Plant Patent Act of 1930, which protects plants grown from cuttings and division, while under intellectual property rights, the Plant Variety Protection Act of 1970 (PVPA) shields non-hybrid, seed-propagated plants.
Trampling on open ground can destroy the above ground parts of many plants and can compact the soil, thereby creating a distinct microenvironment that specific species may be adapted for.
It appears in environmental economics as an aggregation of the (main function based) values provided by a given ecosystem.
In France, the term voies vertes tends to overlap with that of the voies vertes in the cycle route and voies vertes network.
Erkki Pulliainen, an MP of the Green League, in collaboration with Maltais and the University of Helsinki, implemented the interdisciplinary ESSOC project (“Ecological Sylvilisation and Survival with the Aid of Original Cultures”) in 1991.
At the foot of the rand, the water collects and meets the water of the surrounding area on the boundary between the peat soil and mineral soil.
Often much of this information is lost or distorted by the fossilization process or diagenesis of the enclosing sediments, making interpretation difficult.
However, recent studies have shown that meteorological factors and seasonality influence the composition of airborne bacterial communities.
Copley currently works for the Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources for the Government of South Australia.
Artificial lighting also attracts a greater density of piscivorous fish, which have an advantage due to the slower movement of the juvenile fish.
These species can have various adaptations such as deciduousness or semi-deciduousness, reduced leaf size, thick leathery leaves (sclerophylly), sharp thorns or leaf margins and prickles.
The megafaunal dispersal syndrome refers to those attributes of fruits that evolved in order to attract megafauna (animals that weigh or weighed more than 44 kilograms) as primary dispersal agents.
Assemblages of species associated with open-coast salt-wedge estuaries of western and central Victoria ecological community, endangered.
However, they have been seen to occasionally employ more energy-inefficient pursuit predation tactics on flightless geese.
coloniensis glides along the substrate and produce filopodia, which are used to engulf particles associated with the substrate.
Breckle (1986), "Spezielle Ökologie der Gemäßigten und Arktischen Zonen Euro-Nordasiens", Ökologie der Erde (in German), vol.
Most Australian woody plant species are evergreen and many are adapted to fire and drought, including many eucalyptus and acacias.
His research focuses on endemism in the herpetofauna of the biogeographic region of Pantepui in northern South America, particularly the tepui mountains of Venezuela.
This reduced dentition in vermivorous mammals is said to be due to relaxed selectional pressure on dental occlusion.
This helps locate the L-3-glycerophosphate-flavoprotein oxidoreductase, which is on the inner membrane of the mitochondria.
They do not emerge from the den until they are at least four weeks old, and are weaned after about eight weeks and become independent at five to six months old.
Task allocation and partitioning gives rise to the division of labor often observed in social insect colonies, whereby individuals specialize on different tasks within the colony (e.g., "foragers", "nurses").
A lagg, also called a moat, is the very wet zone on the perimeter of peatland or a bog where water from the adjacent upland collects and flows slowly around the main peat mass.
The estimates for the global biomass of prokaryotes had changed significantly over recent decades, as more data became available.
Copley was awarded a Public Service Medal in 2019 "for outstanding public service to conservation and the environment, and to biodiversity research and policy development, in South Australia." == References ==
(2002) claims that the new non-spatial definition is lacking in an ability to settle the debate about whether sympatric speciation regularly occurs in nature.
Instead biotopes need to be connected to each other and other surrounding life for without these connections to life-forms such as animals and plants, biotopes would not effectively work as a place in which diverse organisms live.
The boron cycle is the biogeochemical cycle of boron through the atmosphere, lithosphere, biosphere, and hydrosphere.
Members commit to gradually ensuring that their sourcing practices promote the conservation of biodiversity, respect traditional knowledge and assure the equitable sharing of benefits all along the supply chain, following the Ethical BioTrade Standard.
Fauna Animals that live in these forests include foxes, deer, rabbits, tree frogs, raccoons, toads, silver-back gorillas, and painted buntings.
However, nutrient depletion can also happen within organisms, as nutrients are usually the first link in the food chain.
Timeline Development On 19 November 2015, ESA has selected FLEX as the agency's eighth Earth Explorer mission.
The host sanction (HS) theory aims to understand how cooperation evolves and is maintained in a mutualistic relationship between organisms.
Gilg, Olivier; Strøm, Hallvard; Aebischer, Adrian; Gavrilo, Maria V.; Volkov, Andrei E.; Miljeteig, Cecilie; Sabard, Brigitte (2010).
Some of the physical places are remote or protected from development, others are deliberately located in cities or agricultural areas.
It has previously existed in Western Australia, South Australia, and the coast of New Zealand during the Middle Holocene.
Epigenetic inheritance Epigenetic inheritance is the phenomenon of inheritance of epigenetic marks on DNA, which are often induced by environmental factors.
Sperry Award 2015 - American Society of Landscape Architects Honor Communications Award References External links Rutgers profile
ASEAN Heritage Parks (AHP) are selected protected areas in the ASEAN region that are known for their unique biodiversity and ecosystems, wilderness and outstanding values in scenic, cultural, educational, research, recreational and tourism.
The word liana does not refer to a taxonomic grouping, but rather a habit of plant growth—much like tree or shrub.
In this location, precipitation falls mostly as rain rather than snow; and also precipitation occurs mostly in the summer The ecoregion known as the Pine Barrens are found to spread across much of the northeastern United States, primarily in the state of New Jersey.
The Wildlife Monographs is a peer-reviewed scientific journal devoted to the ecology of non-domesticated animal species.
Extraction: Vermivores will dig or peck their way to the worm or what til they come to the surface(usually at night or in the rain).
Depaving Ecocity Builders helped plan and provided support for a variety of small to medium-sized depaving projects in Berkeley.
Adult female coffin flies can burrow up to 2 meters (6.6 ft) into soil and enter coffins in order to lay eggs on or near the resting corpse.
The atmospheric transport of iron-rich dust can impact the ocean concentrations, enhancing the marine ecosystems productivity by fueling phytoplankton growth, increasing carbon uptake as well as the ocean-atmosphere CO2 exchange.
The term is used in botany and in vegetation ecology especially in relation to grasslands and understory.
This program places native bee hives on residential properties, assisting with pollination while increasing awareness of this insect.
Linda Leigh (Biosphere 2 member in the first sealed mission 1991-93), Phil Hawes (chief architect for the Biosphere 2), and Bernd Zabel (construction manager for the Biosphere 2 and member of the second sealed mission in 1994) were present for ingress and egress of these first missions.
Brandon island is one of at least thirty located on the Mauritian Cargados Carajos coral reef atoll system, part of a CEPF designated Key Biodiversity Area (KBA) of the Cargados Carajos in the Southwest Indian Ocean.
Organisms preferentially take up light 12C, and have a δ13C signature of about −25‰, depending on their metabolic pathway.
Curtiss distinguished professor in agricultural and life sciences by Iowa State University Awards and honors John D.
The larvae will remain in their egg membranes until they are totally developed, at which point they will break out and begin to feed.
He currently holds several directorial positions at non-governmental organizations and consults with the UN Development Programme.
Journalism For two years Gibbons contributed a weekly column to The Irish Times, analysing aspects of climate change and sustainability.
He was speechwriter for Australian Prime Minister John Howard's first environment minister, Robert Hill.
Hermann Scheer (29 April 1944 – 14 October 2010) was a Social Democrat member of the German Bundestag (parliament), President of Eurosolar (European Association for Renewable Energy) and General Chairman of the World Council for Renewable Energy.
In the early 1980s he became one of the leading figures in the Soviet Writers Union and the Russian Federation Writers Union's first secretary.
Essays on Environmentalism, Feminism, and Nonviolence, Parallax Press, Berkeley, California, 1994 (ISBN 0-938077-62-7) Kelly, Petra K.
In September 2024, it was announced that Macmillan Children's Books had secured the rights to a new middle-grade series by Leonard, Time Keys, in a six-figure, four-book deal.
Early career Megre left home at age 16 and moved to Novosibirsk, where he worked as a photographer, camera operator and film director in several commercial co-operatives.
He is also a prominent advocate of the Save Moreton Bay organisation, the Environment Defender's Office, the Australian Wildlife Conservancy and the Marine Conservation Society, with which he is campaigning against shark finning.
Intellectual property cases In November 2006, at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., Crichton joked that he considered himself an expert in intellectual property law.
References External links Burgmann, Verity (1952 - ) at The Encyclopedia of Women and Leadership in Twentieth-Century Australia
Roberts is an American educator, researcher, college professor, guest speaker, and planning historian, who is an associate professor in the Department of Urban and Environmental Planning for cultural planning at the University of Virginia.
In spring 2020, after lockdown, she was commissioned by the BBC to write a poem in response to Ruskin's View in Kirkby Lonsdale, and appeared on BBC 3's arts programme The Verb, hosted by Ian McMillan.
In the early 2000s, Theodor Friedrich and Josef Kienzle of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) opined that his rejection of mechanisation is not justifiable for modern agricultural production and that the system cannot interact effectively with conventional agricultural systems.
Schlossberg attended the all-girls Brearley School with her sister Rose, and later the Trinity School, from which she graduated in 2008.
He also called attention to the business of smuggling of rare animals for the purpose of exposition or laboratory experiments, in particular endangered chimpanzees and parrots.
In 2004, Suzuki ranked fifth on the list of final nominees in a CBC television series that asked viewers to select The Greatest Canadian of all time.
In September 2024, Shellenberger appeared with Bill Nye at an event entitled "Can Science Save the World?" hosted by New College of Florida.
He was the director of the Advocacy for Social Justice and Sustainability program in the department of Environmental Studies at Antioch University New England.
Later novels in the 1990s and 2000s included Beauty (1991), which won a Locus Award; Shadow's End (1994); The Family Tree (1997); Six Moon Dance (1998); Singer from the Sea (1999); The Visitor (2002); The Companions (2003); and The Margarets (2007).
He ran against nine others for the seat, and came second, receiving 32.40 percent of primary votes and 39.77 percent of preferred votes.
In Japan, where Fukuoka had few followers or associates, his critics argue that the "inner world and the connection between humans and nature does not, however, exhaust reality" and that he did not give sufficient attention to interpersonal relationships or society.
Kawaguchi's Natural Farming The natural farming method of Masanobu Fukuoka uses no fertilizers or chemicals and very little water, allowing crops and weeds to grow freely, requiring a minimum of human intervention.
The first Chapter "The 5Rs and the Benefits of the Zero Waste Lifestyle explains the core principles of her zero waste philosophy.
According to MSN News, Johnson had to cancel her speaking tour in the US due to quarantine and lockdown polices in 2020 but still maintained her zero waste lifestyle while living on the road and staying at the campgrounds.
Books Frackopoly: The Battle for the Future of Energy and the Environment (2016) chronicles the history of the energy policy that regulated the development of fracking, arguing that great leniency was given to the oil and gas industry.
Moldan is professor of environmental science, founder and director of the Charles University Environment Center.
"Petra Kelly And Dorothy Day: Peace Activists Working Inside and Outside the Traditional Government Structure for Social Change." Journal for Peace and Justice Studies 23.2 (2013): 117–138.
As the battle with Mary raged in the household, Leakey begged his father from his sickbed not to leave.
About 70 percent of his diet came from dumpsters—he ate more than 280 pounds (130 kg) of food from grocery store dumpsters to bring attention to food waste.
Rossabi, A Peculiarly English Genius, or a Wiltshire Taoist: A Biography of Richard Jefferies, The Early Years, 1848–1867 (Foulsham, Norfolk UK: Petton Books, 2017).
Réimpression 1999 ISBN 978-2-7178-1360-9 Teilhard de Chardin, prophète d'un âge totalitaire, éditions Denoël, Paris, 1963 ISBN 2207203069 (épuisé) Le Paradoxe de la culture, Denoël, Paris, 1965.
Hermann Scheer was a critic of the Desertec desert power project, seeing the project as a reinforcement of the monopoly of energy companies and considering the transport and investment costs to be too high.
He is best known for work in environmental justice, being among those who simultaneously coined the term in the mid-1980s.
Radio and television In 1989 the BBC Radio 4 series Last Chance to See and the subsequent book (1990) described eight expeditions by Carwardine and writer Douglas Adams to find and report on some of the most endangered species around the world.
He became the Director of Antioch's Advocacy for Social Justice and Sustainability program (Formerly called the Environmental Advocacy And Organizing program), which he helped found, and used as the subject of his Ph.D.
References External links Cullinan & Associates Inc, a specialist environmental law firm, based in Cape Town, South Africa.
He is a fellow of the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership, and has led residential seminars convened by its The Prince of Wales's Business & Sustainability Programme in Melbourne.
In 2012 she was recognized as a Food Hero by Vegetarian Times as someone "dedicated to organizing the grassroots on big-picture issues that affect the natural world and people's health".
Nominated by Lilly Singh in 2017, Alper was the only teenager of Bloomberg Businessweek's 19 people to watch in 2018.
Lloyd-Jones was a key figure to many in the free churches, and evangelical Anglicans regarded Stott similarly.
In September 2023, Roy received the lifetime achievement award at the 45th European Essay Prize for the French translation of her book Azadi.
Leading SPD figures such as Jürgen Walter and Wolfgang Clement, a former Minister President of North Rhine Westphalia from the right wing of the party, who later left the party, were rather critical.
Situated on land originally purchased in the 1960s by Wenonah's father, William Bates, the farm is now run as a community-supported agriculture (CSA) enterprise.
She played Creusa in the Washington Shakespeare Theatre Company's 3 October 2009–4/12/2009 production of Euripides's Ion.
Through his career spanning over 45 years, he has been associated with major media houses like Business India, Businessworld, The Telegraph, India Today and The Pioneer.
The photography department produced numerous notable photographers, including Philip Hyde, Benjamen Chinn, and Bill Heick.
like the medievalists, Eiseley reads nature as the second book of God's revelation, mysterious and heavy with latent, lurking fertility.
The blog evolved and in 2013 Johnson published a book, summarizing her views and philosophy on minimalism and offering practical advice on how to reduce waste at home.
Meanwhile, he was director of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program, University College, before he moved on to be the Director of the Trudeau Centre for Peace and Conflict Studies until 2007.
Esty joined Yale University in 1994, becoming the Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy in 2002.
Sheri Stewart Tepper (July 16, 1929 – October 22, 2016) was an American writer of science fiction, horror and mystery novels.
He maintained that due to growing global incomes, reducing consumption and human population is critical to protecting the environment and maintaining living standards, and that current rates of growth are still too great for a sustainable future.
Roger Pielke's Honest Broker assumed with regard to climate studies, that the linear model still is overwhelmingly persistent.
She was an editorial intern at Garden & Gun and Oxford American, and Associate Editor at Fiction Southeast.
Wenz is Professor of Philosophy and Legal Studies at the University of Illinois at Springfield, University Scholar of the University of Illinois, and Adjunct Professor of Medical Humanities at the Southern Illinois University School of Medicine.
In a letter to Scotland after his dismissal, he expresses his preference for Presbyterian to congregational polity.
In 1980, after researching the Battle of Kulikovo for two years, Rasputin was baptised by an Orthodox priest in nearby Yelets.
Her awards include: High Commendation for IEAust Award for Cultural Change in Engineering Education, 1998 Michael Daley Prize for Excellence in Science, Technology and Engineering Journalism, 1992 Commonwealth Postgraduate Award, 1985-1988 Books Beder, Sharon.
He subsequently began working on climate change more seriously and shifted to campaigning and publicly communicating about climate change from the 2000s.
Emeritus Professor Michel Fabre of the Sorbonne called O'Connor's "a mind full of sensitivity and passion to new probings or to sometimes disenchanted narrations (contatations)".
See also International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River References External links Official website of the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River
Marshall's contributions to what became known as the Copeland Report amounted to three extensive chapters of a two-volume, 1,677-page work.
Hannah Alper (born 2002/2003) is a Canadian activist, blogger, and journalist who was active in those fields before her teens.
Publications Esty has authored or edited 14 books and more than 100 scholarly articles on environmental policy, sustainability, corporate strategy, competitiveness, trade, globalization, and regulatory approaches.
Weston retired from full-time teaching in 2018 while continuing to write and to do design and construction work at Common Ground.
References External links www.bi.edu Archived 3 June 2016 at the Wayback Machine 2052 book supplement website www.2052.info BI Norwegian Business School - Jørgen Randers
In 1987, he founded the Free Enterprise Press, later merged into Merril Press, and began writing a series of books on the environmental movement.
In 2008, he was the plenary speaker at the "Poetic Ecologies" conference at the Université Libre de Bruxelles.
In August, she moved to New Delhi, where she lived alone, with a number of cats and at least one cobra.
The dissertation is titled Activist Training In The Academy: Developing a Master's Program in Environmental Advocacy and Organizing.
Hooded warblers, along with birds more generally, were previously believed to form clutches with a single father.
She has also repeatedly visited the Gulf of Mexico in the wake of the spill, which, she argues, is causing health consequences similar to the 1989 Exxon spill.
While studying at Harvard Kennedy School at Harvard University in the mid-1990s, Pearse worked on the advance staff of then U.S.
She cites, for example, Exxon's attempt to re-enter Prince William Sound—after being banned from the area by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990—by claiming a Fifth Amendment right.
It was adapted as a 2006 film of the same name (starring Logan Lerman, Brie Larson and Luke Wilson).
This is a sequel to the best-selling book, Last Chance to See, which he wrote with the late Douglas Adams (author of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy).
Ginjaar served as acting Minister for Science Policy from 1 April 1979 until 3 May 1979 following the death of Rinus Peijnenburg.
Kacal helped set up local nature conservation organisations, and founded the Council of Presidents of the Environment (COPE) for better coordination among these organisations.
Zencey taught at the University of Vermont in the Honors College program and Empire State College’s International Program.
Often referred to as an eco-feminist of science fiction literature, Tepper personally preferred the label eco-humanist.
Awards Source Works Novels Series The True Game (a trilogy of trilogies) The Peter series was the first published.
Ehrlich continued to stand by his general thesis that the human population is too large, posing a direct threat to human survival and the environment of the planet.
"My starting point is not renewable energies, but society – based on the recognition of the fundamental importance of the energy transition for its future viability.
Ian Lowe (born 3 November 1942) is an Australian academic and writer focused on environmental issues.
In particular he has been critical of the stance taken on the issue of global warming by broadcaster Pat Kenny.
Charles was later employed as the secretary-treasurer of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, from 1925 to 1950.
He aimed eat solely by dumpster diving at grocery stores and convenience stores to draw attention to and find solutions for food waste.
Her book Consciousness: An Introduction (2004), is a textbook that broadly covers the field of consciousness studies.
Throughout the 19th century, works of nature writing included those of American ornithologist John James Audubon (1785–1851), Charles Darwin (1809–1882) and Alfred Russel Wallace (1823–1913).
Biography Richard Melo was born in San Francisco, California and attended San Francisco State University.
LoveStar (published in English by Seven Stories Press) The Story of The Blue Planet (published in English by Seven Stories Press) (original title: Sagan af bláa hnettinum.
And they not only state it in their charter, that's a call for the destruction of Palestine, explicit call for it".
In 1915, Marshall climbed his first Adirondack peak, the 3,352-foot (1,022 m) Ampersand Mountain, alongside his brother George and family friend Herb Clark, a Saranac Lake guide.
Also on BBC2 on 7 November 2010 Carwardine and Fry co-presented Stephen Fry and the Great American Oil Spill about the effects, four months after the BP oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.
Essai sur la société d'hyperconsommation (2006) examines the multiplication and globalization of major brands and the connection between fashion and luxury which is the basis of hyper-consumerism.
The election result saw the christian-liberal governing parties CDU and FDP lose the majority they had held since 1999 in the traditionally social democratic state.
Early life Roselle grew up in Louisville, Kentucky and moved to Los Angeles, California as a child in 1968.
Caldicott is featured along with foreign affairs experts, space security activists and military officials in interviews in Denis Delestrac's 2010 feature documentary Pax Americana and the Weaponization of Space.
In early 2010, Plimer toured Australia with British climate change denier Christopher Monckton, giving lectures on climate change, and Plimer's views came to be associated with Monckton's claim that the international left created the threat of catastrophic global warming.
As a marine biologist and participant in the fishing industry, Ott quickly became a key spokesperson for those affected by the spill.
He joined Tokyo Movie Shinsha in 1979 to direct his first feature film The Castle of Cagliostro (1979) and the television series Sherlock Hound (1984–1985).
One of his last initiatives as chief forester of the BIA was to recommend designation of 4,800,000 acres (19,425 km2) of Indian reservation lands for federal management as either "roadless" or "wild" areas.
In 1982, Gerhard Schröder wrote a contribution in Die Zeit for the book Prinzip Leben, edited by Kelly and Jo Leinen, which discussed ecological problems and a possible nuclear war.
[4] This is a less surprising theme in Weston's work than it may seem, given his interest in other-than-human "contact" right here on Earth; it also emerges in his recent teaching and in the last chapters of both The Incompleat Ecophilosopher and Mobilizing the Green Imagination.
In 2000, Moore published Green Spirit — Trees are the Answer, a photo-book on forests and the role they can play in solving some current environmental problems.
New Statesman named McIntyre as 32nd of its "50 People Who Matter 2010", citing his role in the email controversy.
During Radford's tenure at Greenpeace, his theory of change shifted from viewing governments as arbitrators between public and private interests on environmental issues, to believing that engagement with companies first could lead to better policy.
On 7 March 2007, he was elected as most influential sustainable Dutchman in the De Duurzame 100 investigation by the newspaper Trouw and broadcasting group LLink.
In 1944, he left the University of Kansas to assume the role of head of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Oberlin College in Ohio.
Biography Philip Weller studied environmental science at the University of Waterloo in Canada and received a Master of Urban and Regional Planning degree from the same university with a focus on rehabilitation and clean-up of environmental hot spots within the Great Lakes of North America.
Notable writings Hsu authored or edited over 20 books, many in multiple languages, and was elected an International Writer of the Year by the International Book Club (Cambridge, UK) in 2003.
She also helped establish several indigenous NGOs in Ladakh including the Women's Alliance of Ladakh (WAL), the Ladakh Environment and Health Organisation (LEHO), and the Ladakh Ecological Development Group (LEDeG).
Life Weston was born in 1954 and grew up in the Sauk County region of southwestern Wisconsin, country identified with the conservationist Aldo Leopold (in his Sand County Almanac) and the architect and visionary Frank Lloyd Wright, a strong influence on his father's family.
She made her literary debut in 2012 with the children's novel Over grensen ("Across the Border"), a thriller set in 1942, where the protagonists Sarah and Daniel are Jews trying to escape murderous Nazi persecution during the German occupation of Norway and find their way to neutral Sweden.
He is the founder and Executive Director of the Cascade Institute at Royal Roads University in Victoria, British Columbia.
Altner is known for his teaching and lectures, his numerous books, his role of co-founder and curator of the Öko-Institut and his activity as political advisor to the German government.
She is the author of The Gathering Tide (Saraband 2016) (selected as one of The Observer Writers’ Books of the Year in 2016), The Blackbird Diaries (Saraband 2017) and Abundance: Nature in Recovery (Bloomsbury 2021).
Bill Wattenburg's talk radio show on KGO and appealed for a lawyer to help them incorporate a branch office in San Francisco and to manage donations.
The company is located in downtown Toronto and includes a cafe where customers can sample a wide variety of coffee.
Academic career Since October 1999, Winsemius holds a professorate for Management of Sustainable Development, at the Tilburg University.
As he later recalled, Marshall worked "18 to 20 hours a day as time-keeper, Chief of Commissary, Camp Boss, and Inspector of the fire line".
In December 2022, having become became de-facto a federally prohibited supervised injection site and failing at its mission of linking people to housing and treatment, the facility closed.
After working briefly as a teacher, she also completed a teaching diploma at the University of Bristol.
She cautioned workers involved in cleaning up the mess to be wary of the health effects of going near the oil slick, saying that those who had been affected by the spill from the Exxon Valdez had suffered long-term consequences of a medical nature.
The article brought to light how the Government tweaked the rules which favoured a certain company within the Adani Group to the tune of Rs 500 Crores.
Controversies On 6 March 2026, leaders and activists of Bangladesh Jamaat-e-Islami held a rally in Dhaka demanding an investigation into alleged irregularities in the 12 February parliamentary elections.
She helped to draft parts of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which authorized the creation of the Prince William Sound Regional Citizens’ Advisory Council and called for the introduction of double-hull oil tankers.
by the Ringing Cedars Press, in the United Kingdom by Ringing Cedars UK Limited, and in Australia by Ringing Cedars Australia.
He was an honoree of the Ramon Magsaysay Award in 2024 for his usage of art to "illuminate the human condition".
His own first attempts were not successful until, he said, he understood that the aim was to cultivate land as in the very early days of cultivation rather than to let it go totally wild.
dialogue between Václav Havel and Adam Michnik, English, salon.eu.sk, November 2008 Warner, Margaret.
Hiking trails MacKaye's article "An Appalachian Trail: A Project in Regional Planning," which proposed the construction of the Appalachian Trail, was published in the October 1921 issue of Journal of the American Institute of Architects.
Role in the Climatic Research Unit controversy Colby Cosh, writing for Maclean's magazine, believes McIntyre's criticisms of climate science are at the heart of the Climatic Research Unit email controversy in November–December 2009.
As Gypsy Soul wrote: "The book is split into sections which makes it very easy to use as a reference book when you want to tackle a certain area of your life." Another critic Master Michael Quinn notes: "This is a book about values that forces us to examine our own.
In 2007, he accused the SPD leadership of pushing ahead with privatisation without democratic discussion, but gave in to the compromise proposal for partial privatisation of the railways during subsequent negotiations in 2008.
In 2015 she co-founded Recyclothes, a sustainable fashion project and charity, with her sister Rebekah Yeoh.
Youth and education Born in Zürich, Switzerland, Weizsäcker spent his childhood in Zürich and Göttingen.
His second book of poems, Chinook and Chanterelle, features cover art by his wife, the late artist and naturalist Thea Linnaea Pyle.
In 1979, it was announced that Crichton would direct a movie version of his novel Eaters of the Dead for the newly formed Orion Pictures.
[5] "Non-anthropocentrism in a Thoroughly Anthropocentrized World", The Trumpeter 8:3 (1991): 108–112.
As script writer she has contributed to the television series Barnas supershow, Hjem and Side om side.
Both parents' first language was Yiddish although it was taboo to speak it at home; his father spoke English with a foreign accent while his mother spoke a native New York City English dialect.
His writings have analysed the perceived failure of Project Tiger, a conservation apparatus created in 1973 by the Government of India.
The Overstory, published in April 2018, is about nine Americans whose unique life experiences with trees bring them together to address the destruction of forests.
Ashok Swain, Struggle Against the State: Social Network and Protest Mobilization in India (Farnham: Ashgate Publishing Limited, 2010).
Gas Wars: Crony Capitalism and the Ambanis, 2014 Paranjoy Guha Thakurta; co-authors Subir Ghosh and Jyotirmoy Chaudhuri, ISBN 81-928551-3-9.
As one classmate put it, Marshall was "always doing something no one else would ever think of doing.
Notable non-fiction environmental writers include: American non-fiction environmental writers Other non-fiction environmental writers See also List of environmental books References External links Environmental Writers How Writers Created the Environmental Movement - U.S.
Biography Early life Jonathan Edwards was born on October 5, 1703, the fifth of 11 children and only son of Timothy Edwards, a minister at East Windsor, Connecticut (modern-day South Windsor), who supplemented his salary by tutoring boys for college.
He became absorbed in the story of the 1939 fall of Barcelona and suppression of the Spanish anarchosyndicalist movement, writing his first article on the topic at the age of 10.
Zerzan returned to school and received a master's degree in history from San Francisco State University in 1972.
Ann's West seat in the House of Representatives as a candidate of the National Alliance for Reconstruction (NAR) party, defeating the incumbent candidate of the People's National Movement (PNM).
The result is a living environment perfectly attuned to its human inhabitants, a "love space" for the beneficial conception, birth and upbringing of new generations.
Also in 1976, she featured in an episode of Space: 1999 as Anna Davies in 'The Testament of Arkadia'.
His Foreign Policy piece The Convenient Disappearance of Climate Change Denial in China Energy won the Energy of Words Media Contest in 2018.
In it, Abbey vividly describes the physical landscapes of southern Utah and delights in his isolation as a backcountry park ranger, recounting adventures in the nearby canyon country and mountains.
During this period, Bookchin briefly forged some ties with the nascent libertarian movement, speaking at a Libertarian Party convention and contributing to a newsletter edited by Karl Hess.
References Bibliography Vladimir Megré, The Ringing Cedars of Russia series Anastasia (book 1) The Ringing Cedars of Russia (book 2) The Space of Love (book 3) Co-creation (book 4) Who are We?
While at Yale, Schlossberg wrote for The Yale Herald and eventually became the paper's editor-in-chief.
Awards Under Hasan's leadership, BELA won the Global 500 Roll of Honor in 2003 by the United Nations Environment Program.
Speaking near Baitul Mukarram National Mosque, party leaders accused Foreign Minister Khalilur Rahman and former adviser Syeda Rizwana Hasan of involvement in “election engineering”.
Raised in Plantation, Florida, then a rural suburb of Fort Lauderdale, he started writing at age six when his father gave him a typewriter for Christmas.
Since 2013, he is project manager for the International Association of Water Supply Companies in the Danube River Catchment Area (IAWD).
His younger sister is Sharyn O'Neill, who in 2018 became the Public Sector Commissioner of Western Australia, after 12 years as Director General of the WA Education Department.
He worked as postgrade scientist at Universität Stuttgart and as a scientist (1976 till 1980) at the Forschungszentrum Karlsruhe (a large nuclear and basic research center).
Winsemius also returned as a senior management consultant of the McKinsey & Company from August 1986 until October 1992 and served as a distinguished professor of Environmental management at the Tilburg University from 1 October 1999 until 1 September 2012.
Its discussion of the lead-up to the First Opium War in the 1830s also serves as background to Ghosh's fictional Ibis trilogy.
In a 2001 interview, he summarized his views this way: The overriding problem is to change the structure of society so that people gain power.
Wood usually inked over Harrison's layouts, and the two freelanced for several publishers and genres, including westerns and horror comics.
Alistair Beaton (born 1947) is a playwright and satirist, journalist, radio presenter, novelist and television writer.
Perry (USGS), 2001, in West, G.J., and Buffaloe, L.D., eds., Proceedings of the Seventeenth Annual Pacific Climate Workshop, May 22–25, 2000, Two Harbors, Santa Catalina Island, California: Interagency Ecological Program for the San Francisco Estuary Technical Report 67, p.
1975: Ecological isolation in bulbuls (Class Aves, family Pycnonotidae) with special reference to Pycnonotus cafer (L) and P.luteolus (Lesson) at Point Calimere, Tamil Nadu.
L'écologie est politique, with Lucile Schmid & Olivier Frossard, Les Petits matins, 2013 ISBN 978-2-36383-112-5.
He has also taught at Polytechnic of the South Bank (now South Bank University) in London, England (1980–81); at Aberdeen University in Scotland (1986–87); at Oxford University in England (fall 2003) and at The University of Canterbury in Christchurch, New Zealand (2007).
In 1980 he taught Professional Writing at the University of Canberra, but thereafter returned to North Queensland and reverted to being a professional poet, though he did terms as writer in residence at several Australian universities.
Hoegh-Guldberg has been an author of various IPCC reports, including being the coordinating lead author of the Oceans Chapter with fifth assessment published in 2014.
Several of Lomborg's articles, in newspapers such as The Wall Street Journal and The Daily Telegraph, have been checked by Climate Feedback, a worldwide network of scientists who assess the credibility of influential climate change media coverage.
My very strong recollection is that it was [the Abbott Government's] very first act in government...
She expressly rejects the "cancer clichés", instead going back to her time with Lessing, and meeting famous literary figures, including Robert Graves, Alan Sillitoe, Lindsay Anderson, and R.
Instead, both Egypt and India have greatly increased their food production and now feed much larger populations without reliance on food aid.
Chesterton Institute for Faith and Culture based in Seton Hall University, South Orange, New Jersey.
(May 31, 1895 – August 22, 1980) was an American historian, toponymist, novelist, and a professor of English at the University of California, Berkeley.
He graduated in 1974, from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering of the Czech Technical University in Prague and in the same year co-founded the Brontosaurus Movement focused on nature conservation within the framework of the then official Socialist Youth Union.
He has also served as a trustee or advisor for the Energy Future Coalition, Resources for the Future, Connecticut Fund for the Environment, the Nature Conservancy of Connecticut, Sustainable Technology Capital, American Farmland Trust, and the U.S.
I did not come to politics for renewable energies, but rather from my view of the problem and my understanding of political responsibility for renewable energies.
Within two days of Anthony's death, a group of 21 elephants Anthony had saved and befriended walked two days to his home.
As a researcher, Flannery had roles at several universities and museums in Australia, specialising in fossil marsupials and mammal evolution.
Havel subsequently directed a film version of the play, which premiered in the Czech Republic on 22 March 2011.
In the fields of education and creative writing, he was involved in eco-literature, ecopoetics, and writing instruction for children.
He emailed GISS advising them of the problem and within a couple of days GISS issued a new, corrected set of data and thanked McIntyre for "bringing to our attention that such an adjustment is necessary to prevent creating an artificial jump in year 2000".
In a published essay, University of Pennsylvania alumnus Carl Hoffman wrote, An old man who had done almost all of his writing late, late at night, was speaking to a younger man who liked to read in those same dark hours.
In 2022, Stephenson launched Lamina1 to build an open source metaverse that will use smart contracts on a blockchain.
Hauter initially attended community college before transferring to James Madison University, where she graduated with a bachelor's degree in sociology.
The band adapted extracts from the novel, together with broadside ballads, plague poetry and Lancashire Cotton Famine poetry to create a back story to the events that Jefferies details in his novel.
He is also a full member of the Club of Rome, a company director, a member of various not-for-profit boards, a business consultant on global sustainability matters and an author.
He participated in a program of self-designed study, focusing on writing, publishing, social and ecological issues, and non-profit organizational management.
Great Bear Rainforest: A Giant Screen Adventure in the Land of the Spirit Bear, by Ian McAllister and Alex Van Tol.
His work has been published in Vice News, Rolling Stone, The New York Times, Foreign Policy, The Guardian, Penthouse, The Walrus and The Toronto Star.
Fiacha Fola is the best collection of poetry I have read this year." Aine Ni Ghlinn Scarecrows at Newtownards Her first collection in English Scarecrows at Newtownards was published by Scotus Press in 2005.
By 2021, the Mayor's proposed "public London charter", announced in 2017, had been formalised as the Public London Charter London Plan Guidance: the Mayor approved it for adoption in September 2021 and it was adopted on 8 October 2021.
During the seventh meeting of the Conference of the Parties, further iteration on the ecosystem approach would be seen as a priority, during the meeting the parties would agree new implementation and strategical development could be incorporated with the ecosystem approach into the CBD.
In addition to its natural heritage, it is home to structures and remnants of the Royal Ironworks of St John, Ipanema.
In 1936, the Ohka oil wells extracted about 470,000 tonnes; one-third were obtained for Japanese concessionaires.
It incorporated the land between the Customs Wall and a railway line being constructed to encircle the city; the area came to be known architecturally as the Wilhelmine Ring.
High NDVI values represent dense vegetation cover, moderate NDVI values represent sparse vegetation cover, and low NDVI values correspond to non-vegetated areas (e.g., barren or bare lands).
Judicial decisions and enforcement of private land-use arrangements can reinforce public regulation, and achieve forms and levels of control that regulatory zoning cannot.
The organization emerged from Scheper-Hughes' work with the Bellagio Task Force on Securing Bodily Integrity for the Socially Disadvantaged in Transplant Surgery, convened in 1994 by the Soros Foundation’s Open Society Institute.
Horse ponds can also pose a risk to the health of horses if its water is poisoned with fertilizer runoff from local farms and/or by different types of algae.
Humboldtine is a rarely occurring mineral from the mineral class of "organic compounds" with the chemical composition FeC2O4•2H2O and is therefore a water-containing iron(II) oxalate or the iron salt of oxalic acid.
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Natural Resources were created on August 14, 1996.
Other studies showed that the classical notion of molecule is not convenient for humus, which escaped most attempts done over two centuries to resolve it in unit components, but still is chemically distinct from polysaccharides, lignins and proteins.
Minerals and the metals that can be extracted from them (without further modification) are also considered to belong into this category.
Historically, technology has mostly been developed and implemented in order to improve labour productivity and increase living standards.
The TMUCH team has carried out numerous initiatives in Zanzibar and Kilwa Kisiwani with the help of both technical and financial aid from the CIE-Centre for International Heritage Activities, UNESCO, and the Netherlands Government.
While a precise definition may not exist, a fire-adapted community has a combination or mixture of similar characteristics: The community exists within or adjacent to a fire-prone ecosystem and has a defined geographic boundary.
Often used in the construction of boats, patios, and outdoor furniture, teak lumber is known for its ability to resist rot, warping and cracking.
Publications Ramankutty has published more than 100 articles on various topics about land use and food security.
LULUCF has been the subject of two major reports by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), but is difficult to measure.
The first in situ observations of extensive living chemosynthetic communities in the eastern Mediterranean Sea prompted cooperation between biologists, geochemists, and geologists.
In effect, speculative builders took over with densely packed architectural designs to allow a maximum number of rooms – the foundation of the Mietskaserne tenement housing estates rings.
In geography, an arm is a narrow extension, inlet, or smaller reach, of water flowing out from a much larger body of water, such as an ocean, a sea, or a lake.
It is defined as systematically assessing scientific information from published, peer-reviewed publications and texts, practitioners' experiences, independent expert assessment, and local and indigenous knowledge on a specific conservation topic.
Natural capital is the world's stock of natural resources, which includes geology, soils, air, water and all living organisms.
Private sector approaches Some studies envisage a private sector natural capital 'ecosystem', including investors, assets and regulators.
Based on ownership, resources can be classified as individual, community, national, and international.
Morphology The channel of a mountain river often changes chaotically as it progresses downstream, changing width and depth significantly both over space and over time as erosion alters the shape of the stream.
It was first described from several syenite pegmatites by Scheerer, and although the type locality is unknown, the island became listed as the type locality since it was mentioned by Scheerer.
Following a meeting with European Commission President José Manuel Barroso in Berlin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel condemned the action, stating "It is not acceptable when there are no consultations about such actions".
On 6 August 2014, in connection with restructuring state bodies of the Kazakh government, the Ministry of Environment and Water was disbanded and its functions were transferred to the newly created Ministry of Energy and partly to the Ministry of Agriculture.
Reception The Hobrecht-plan was criticized for decades as given the foundation for social problems, possibly even nurturing the street fights in the 1920s between red (communists) and brown (fascists) thugs in the crowded lower class quarters.
A distant relative of dale is currency unit dollar, stemming from German thaler or daler, short for Joachimsthaler coins manufactured in the town of Joachimsthal in Bohemia.
Impact The resolution has been invoked in international arbitrations, national court rulings, government decrees and diplomatic protests.
The method can be used to assess environmental burdens associated with the economic activities of a nation and to determine how material intensive an economy is.
Natural resources are also categorized based on distribution: Ubiquitous resources are found everywhere (for example, air, light, and water).
Meckgacha: Ravine: a landform that is narrower than a canyon and is often the product of streambank erosion.
When these exhalations reach the atmosphere and cool, the minerals contained in them tend to precipitate out.
Other conflict minerals being illicitly exported from the Congo include tungsten, tin, cassiterite, and coltan (which provides the tantalum for mobile phones, and is also said to be directly sustaining the conflict).
As of 2015 he is a professor of Global Food Security and Sustainability at the University of British Columbia Ramankutty studies changes in land use and agricultural practices, and the effect on global food production.
Crystallography Researchers conclusively determined that dorrite is triclinic-pseudomonoclinic and twinned by a twofold rotation about the pseudomonoclinic b axis.
Due to irrigation, lands which are not available for cultivation and forestry can be turned into a habitat with copious greenery with enhanced carbon storage in the topsoil which would contribute in mitigating the global warming process.
There are several proposed systems to classify natural capital into parts, such as land or timber, however many of them do not include all aspects of natural systems.
Associated risks Wildlife farming has been linked to the emergence of zoonotic diseases, such as the SARs outbreak which has since been connected with the farming of civets.
In 2000, the Washington D.C.–based United States Green Building Council launched its rigorous Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program.
“Of course I was very young and cared little about what ducks do and knew nothing about publishing and didn’t even care if they included me as a co-author,” stated Cochran (8/23/19).
Beneficiation of primary ores Leaching of primary sulfate minerals occurs through the process of bioleaching for the separation of primary sulfide ores.
While mostly similar to the US Hard Red Spring wheat, the classification caused inconsistencies, so Argentina introduced three new classes of wheat, with all names using a prefix Trigo Dura Argentina (TDA) and a number.
Loans The two primary Chinese policy banks for financing BRI projects are China Development Bank and Export Import Bank and each states support for advancing more green loans.
The primary focus is on plants, but they will sometimes also house waterfowl, or ornamental fish, in which case it may be called a fish pond.
Drought years harmed crop yields, and leaders of society were incentivized to ensure regular water and food availability to remain in power.
Traditional cultural practitioners from throughout Hawaii convened by WPRFMC to discuss establishment of cultural community consultation process with educators and policymakers.
"The Armenian stone" is so similar to lapis lazuli that it has often not been distinguished from it; Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary for instance treats the two terms as synonyms.
The notice was confirmed after ISKCON's appeal by the Secretary of State in 1990 and by the courts in 1991 and 1992.
PARC is based on the United Nations Framework Classification for Resources (UNFC) and the United Nations Resource Management System (UNRMS).
Some examples are: Ice-free harbors For harbors near the North and South poles, being ice-free is an important advantage, especially when it is year-round.
What we’ve seen since the last summit is the 25-year environment plan being developed by government and an environment bill is currently in front of parliament.
They are characterized by high slope and flow velocity, insignificant depth and frequent rapids and waterfalls.
In October 2013, Indigenous organizations from the southeastern Ecuadorian Amazon took part in a 250-kilometre (160 mi) march to Quito, Ecuador's capital.
Aligning resource reporting with the social, environmental, and economic goals outlined in the AMV and Agenda 2063.
In forming a solid solution series, ionic size is more important than ionic charge, as this can be compensated for elsewhere in the structure.
Polar region waters are a place where cold and fresh water melting from sea ice meets warmer, saltier water.
The etymology of cob and cobbing is unclear, but in several senses means to beat or strike, which is how cob material is applied to a wall.
For instance, the anthropologist Arturo Escobar suggests that culturally-driven preferences are one of the main factors degrading the environment.
Reuben Clark Law Society – The JRCLS is an international organization of law school students and graduates with over 65 chapters throughout the world.
At the end of February 2008, Gazprom threatened to reduce the supply of natural gas to Ukraine beginning on 3 March 2008, unless the pre-payment for 2008 was paid.
A thorough analysis of the infrastructure is recommended to identify potential single point of failure (SPOF).
"Urban Forests in Florida: Storm Damage Assessment Utility for Estimating Hurricane-Caused Tree Debris" (PDF).
It played a significant role in managing and improving the water quality, biodiversity, and overall health of rivers, creeks, and other aquatic ecosystems.
The forum has focused on showcasing circular economy solutions for business, cities and finance and attracted 1500 participants from 105 countries.
At any given point in time, in-use stocks are composed of different age-cohorts, each with its specific material content and energy efficiency.
This biome features a thick, closed canopy which blocks light to the floor and allows little underbrush.
Warichi or wari-chi, literally "dividing the land", is the process of land redistribution practices of arable land and communal management that become common during the early modern era (seventeenth to nineteenth-century) in Japan.
(2007): A System of Codification for Unnamed Minerals: Report of the SubCommittee for Unnamed Minerals of the IMA Commission on New Minerals, Nomenclature and Classification.
Public Interest Law Organization (PILO) – to promote scholarship, activism, and career opportunities for law students interested in working for the public interest.
First, boards undergo "partial removal of lignin and hemicellulose from the natural wood via a boiling process in an aqueous mixture of NaOH and Na2SO3" while leaving the cellulose fibres largely intact.
Some spas have a constant stream of bubbles fed via the seating area of the pool, or a footwell area.
The social and environmental impacts of coastal reservoirs are often negligible compared to land-based water reservoirs.
The farmland protection program has been characterized as "the most famous, most studied and most emulated" program of its kind in the United States.
Her studies for the UN University led to the publication of her book The Violence of the Green Revolution.
In 2012 this assessment framework was piloted in Nigeria by a group of Nigerian civil society specialists on the petroleum sector, leading to the publication of an assessment report with traffic light scoring according to the precepts of the Charter.
Some savannas may also be woodlands, such as savanna woodland, where trees and shrubs form a light canopy.
This continued as a precedent in all towns under Spanish control until the relinquishing of the land to others, as in the case of the American colonies and their growth.
Agrochemical intercalates are of interest because of the potential to use LDHs to remove agrochemicals from polluted water, reducing the likelihood of eutrophication.
In 2014 the NCI called on the UK government to introduce a natural capital accounting element into its national accounting framework, and supported the Natural Capital Committee's proposal for a 25-year Government plan for the UK Natural Environment, which has since been published.
Some exceptions will be allowed: the new laws will allow the import of used electronic telecommunication products and copying machines for repair and reuse.
These conferences helped development the Honolulu Derelict Net Recycling Program in 2006 1986 WPRFMC establishes Bottomfish & Seamount Groundfish FMP Bottom trawling and other potentially destructive gear banned throughout the Region's entire 1.5 million square nautical miles of EEZ waters.
Leopards Leopards were originally kept by royalty in Ancient Egypt; today it is a popular exotic pet due to its small size, exotic beauty and its striking coat featuring rosettes and spots.
For comparison, the major source of CO2, namely emissions from fossil fuel combustion and cement production, amount to 6.3 ± 0.6 Gt carbon per year.
Nutrient depletion is a form of resource depletion and refers to the loss of nutrients and micronutrients in a habitat or parts of the biosphere, most often the soil (soil depletion, soil degradation).
They include carbon sequestration, coastal protection, waste disposal, and the existence of biodiversity.
A mixture of 1 °C water and 6 °C water, for instance, might have a temperature of 4 °C, making it denser than either parent.
Geological Survey maintains a stream gage titled “Brushy Bayou at Tallulah, La.” (station 07369455), providing water-level and related data for the bayou.
The black rhino reintroduction, in partnership with the World Wildlife Fund's Black Rhino Range Expansion Project (BRREP), was a major conservation milestone.
Charpy impact tests show an order-of-magnitude gain in toughness compared with the parent wood, while compression and bending strengths also rise markedly.
Maltese farmers found that this method of building these walls was very efficient especially when resources were limited.
Those springs with water cooler than body temperature but warmer than air temperature are sometimes referred to as warm springs.
Temperate coniferous forests sustain the highest levels of biomass in any terrestrial ecosystem and are notable for trees of massive proportions in temperate rainforest regions.
"We need to prioritise good environment and the health of our citizens over industrial development," said Natural Resources and Environment Minister Surasak Kanchanarat.
Optical properties The optical properties of this mineral were discovered by using the standard optical spindle stage procedure in 589 nm light.
It uses a unique methodology that assesses resources based on their environmental, social, and economic viability, technical feasibility and confidence in estimates.
As voting members of the College Council, SBA Board members represent the student body to the law school faculty and administration.
Alternative natural materials have many practical uses in areas such as sustainable architecture and engineering.
Students apply a range of approaches including cost-benefit analysis, simulation modeling, legal and institutional assessment frameworks, and social surveys to address critical and emerging natural resource management issues on local, national, and international scales.
The methodology promotes high-impact technologies for efficient resource discovery, recovery, and processing, intending to advance sustainable resource management practices that can be adapted to various types of resources and geographical contexts.
Departmental team The headquarters and ministerial offices are at Tom Johnson House, Beggar's Bush, Dublin.
LECA is also used in water treatment facilities for the filtration and purification of municipal wastewater and drinking water as well as in other filtering processes, including those for dealing with industrial wastewater and fish farms.
In the oceans Ice that is found at sea may be in the form of drift ice floating in the water, fast ice fixed to a shoreline or anchor ice if attached to the seafloor.
For the science community, land change models are important in their ability to test theories and concepts of land change and its connections to human-environment relationships, as well as explore how these dynamics will change future land systems without real-world observation.
Oyster stocks have declined by 95 per cent in Europe due to over-harvesting, habitat loss, pollution and disease.
Dimensions Large structures are typically constructed with thick walls, such as those found in castles and cathedrals, which can reach up to 12 feet in thickness.
Global initiatives like the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 15 have a target to end the illegal supply of wildlife.
It has undertaken investigations and case studies in Cambodia, Angola, Liberia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Kazakhstan, Burma, Indonesia, Zimbabwe, Turkmenistan and Ivory Coast.
The second number represents the mineral type, in some cases taking into account its atomic structure.
Location Nevadaite was first discovered in the Gold Quarry mine near the town of Carlin, Eureka County, Nevada.
Crafts Traditionally sholapith products have been used for decorating Hindu idols and creating the headgear of brides and grooms for a traditional Bengali wedding.
Between 130 and 1492, larger dams were built in Japan, Afghanistan, and India, including 20 dams higher than 15 metres (49 ft).
It is most chemically similar to the mineral rhönite [Ca2Mg5Ti(Al2Si4)O20], made distinct by a lack of titanium (Ti) and the presence of Fe3+.
Furthermore, the government must be able to rely on the amount of tax money it receives, therefore, the tax imposed must be as certain and as steady as possible.
There also are assorted temperate evergreen forests dominated by other families of trees, such as Lauraceae in laurel forest.
Examples of natural harbors include Victoria Harbor, Hong Kong, Sydney Harbour, New South Wales, Australia, Halifax Harbour in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, and Trincomalee Harbour in Sri Lanka.
Examples Freestanding "kill" Examples of the freestanding use of "kill" are: Anthony Kill, in Saratoga County, New York which flows from Round Lake through the city of Mechanicville into the Hudson River.
It was first discovered at Second scoria cone of the Great Fissure Tolbachik eruption in the summer of 2015 in Kamchatka, Russia.
The Dutch chemist Herman Boerhaave believed it rather to rank among semi-metals, and supposed it was composed of both metal and earth.
United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1803 established the principle of permanent sovereignty over natural resources.
In this definition, animals such as penguins or bald eagles are megafauna because they are among the largest animals within the local animal community, and they disproportionately affect their environment.
SEC has proposed two different standards for the audits: the "reasonable inquiry" and the "due diligence".
There are many ways to do this but the most common is usually done by choosing 5 price points for the survey and then asking the respondent a 5-point purchase intent question for a random price from those 5 established price points.
Under the environmental security perspective, resource scarcity perpetuates conflict by inciting pressures on a society that is dealing with resource deprivation.
Freudenbergite is a mineral that is named in honor of Wilhelm Freudenberg, palaeontologist at the University of Tübingen and the University of Göttingen, and curator for mineralogy and geology at the National Collections of Natural History in Karlsruhe.
External links Texas Severance Tax Incentives: Past and Present (Railroad Commission of Texas) Coal and Renewables in Central Appalachia: The Impact of Coal on the West Virginia State Budget (2010) Coal and Renewables in Central Appalachia: The Impact of Coal on the Tennessee State Budget (2010)
See also Pure-play helium Electrofuel Hydrogen economy Hydrogen production Combined cycle hydrogen power plant Hydrogen fuel cell power plant List of geology journals == References ==
On 16 December, the Natural Environment and Planning Bills passed their first readings and were referred to the Environment select committee.
The ancient and largest sub-Saharan African city, it was built from the 11th to the 14th century and at its peak it was inhabited by some 18,000 people.
The Act helped maintain a viable, sustainable yield, by ensuring land management, reforestation, watershed protection, a permanent timber source, and revenue distributed to local counties.
Building on the MSP, FORGE partners will collaborate at the policy and project levels to advance initiatives that strengthen diversified, resilient, and secure critical minerals supply chains.
The mineral has been determined to be triclinic by a three-dimensional single-crystal diffraction study.
Resource productivity is the quantity of good or service (outcome) that is obtained through the expenditure of unit resource.
The renewable energy from the sun, wind, wave, biomass and geothermal energies are based on renewable resources.
About In places covered by ice sheets during ice ages, such as Scandinavia, northern North America, and Siberia, glacial erratics are common.
The risk to the importing state can be classified as performance risk, and for the exporting state as payment risk.
See also Cabinet of Thailand Deforestation in Thailand Environmental issues in Thailand Government of Thailand List of Government Ministers of Thailand Office of the National Water Resources == References ==
A 2012 South African news item cited concerns regarding the prospects of rooibos farming in the face of climate change.
Economic theory Overgrazing is used as an example in the economic concept now known as the Tragedy of the Commons devised in a 1968 paper by Garrett Hardin.
Definitions According to the World Bank, the blue economy is the "sustainable use of ocean resources for economic growth, improved livelihoods, and jobs while preserving the health of ocean ecosystem.
i-Tree provides baseline data so that the growth of trees can be followed over time, and is used for planning purposes.
Cold seeps (pockmarks) are also known from depths of 130 m in the Hecate Strait, British Columbia, Canada.
Local government has effective land use planning and regulation, including building codes and local ordinances.
He organized a gang of Irish supporters—calling them the "Shiners"—to attack other timber operations.
The Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission noted a loss of 18,768 acres (75.95 km2) acres of farm land over an 8-year period in the 1970s, an average of 2,346 acres/year.
Related programs Agricultural Easement Program The county established its Agricultural Easement Program in 1987, whereby the county may purchase easements on agricultural land.
The Fleishhacker Pool in San Francisco was the largest heated outdoor swimming pool in the United States.
In 1994 The network of natural heritage programs formed a membership association to work together on projects of common interest: the Association for Biodiversity Information (ABI).
Besides maps and regional summaries, publications leading from the survey included Stamp's 1937 and 1948 books The Land of Britain.
Both countries strove for political integration, Russia mostly for geopolitical and Belarus chiefly for economic reasons.
In lowland river valleys where a river can meander, the presence of peat is explained by the infilling of historical oxbow lakes.
The definition of sustainable yield has changed throughout history and the term itself has been described as anthropocentric due to limitations in applying ecological complexity.
In the Dutch Golden Age such specialists tended to produce smaller genre paintings concentrating on their specialism.
This is undoubtedly caused by the illegal nature; vendors rather not risk that the chameleons were to be discovered and so do not ship them in plain view.
A pet exotic felid, also called pet wild cat or pet non-domestic cat, is a member of the family Felidae (excluding the house cat and hybrids thereof) kept as an exotic pet.
While woodlots often technically have closed canopies, they are so small that light penetration from the edge makes them ecologically closer to woodland than forest.
Other minerals that coexist with this phase are plagioclase, gehlenite-akermanite, magnetite-magnesioferrite-spinel solid solutions, esseneite, nepheline, wollastonite, Ba-rich feldspar, apatite, ulvöspinel, ferroan sahamalite, and secondary barite, and calcite.
Instead, the Ministry appealed to the Hague Court of Appeal, which ruled against the Ministry in October 2018.
Discussed topics included Circular Economy and Decoupling; technological innovation, business and finance; targets, indicators, and benchmarks for resource use as well as lifestyles and education.
Since 1960, hundreds of varieties have been created through these methods, mostly in populous countries such as China.
This would also eliminate participation of owners of unrecorded title, such as adverse possession or those who have simply failed to record a deed or settle an estate involving the adjacent property.
That statement contains two separate – but critical concepts: the purpose of the conflict mineral in the product/process, and the control that the company exerts over the manufacturing process/specifications.
From the early 20th century, wildlife artist became a more usual term for contemporary animal painters.
This may in particular have been the case in Western Norway where the tertiary uplift of the landmass amplified eroding forces of rivers.
Equally difficult to justify might be the assumption that every person has a right to absolute control over the resources they happen to have within their borders.
Debt instruments with similar characteristics can be pooled into a new security, for example: Collateralized debt obligations (CDO) is a type of structured asset-backed security (ABS).
The Lion Hunt of Ashurbanipal and military Lachish reliefs, both 7th century BC and in the British Museum, are some of the best known.
Boston Boston has been known historically for the high-cost of living that accompanies residence there, as well as being subject to various urban renewal projects during America's Urban Renewal era.
Alternative natural materials are natural materials like rock or adobe that are not as commonly used as building materials such as wood or iron.
While cypress species are clearly dominant within a Cypress forest, other trees such as California Buckeye, Aesculus californica, are found in some Cypress forests.
ONGC is the leading sport in India's downstream sector, accounting for roughly three-fourths of the country's oil output during 2006, as per Indian government estimates.
Published maps were printed at a scale of 1:25,000 using the Ordnance Survey Provisional and First Series maps as a base.
This followed Stamp's approach of the use of volunteers, with Coleman acknowledging 'generous encouragement and financial help from Professor Stamp'.
Integrated catchment management seeks to take into account complex relationships within those ecosystems: between flora and fauna, between geology, between soils and the biosphere, and between the biosphere and the atmosphere.
Several riparian states have adopted this concept in managing the increasingly scarce resources of watersheds.
Much later, during the late Carboniferous to Triassic, the area was covered by sediments of the Karoo Supergroup.
are the leading companies with respect to production volume, while some foreign companies take part in upstream developments in joint-ventures and production sharing contracts.
Researchers in this field are organized in the Socio-Economic Metabolism (SEM) section of the International Society for Industrial Ecology (ISIE).
It is the culmination of several mergers between natural resource management groups servicing the South East Queensland region over time.
Russian prime minister Vladimir Putin has made accusations that RosUkrEnergo is owned by a business ally of Ukraine's ex-president, Viktor Yushchenko.
Also, EBM considers social and cultural aspects into the solution not just only scientific reasoning.
By melding the two concepts together, new ideas of business principles emerge and can enable some companies-those with the right industry structure, competitive position, and managerial skills- to deliver increased value to shareholders while making improvements in their environmental performance.
1 of the United Nations Council for Namibia adopted to provide the people of Namibia adequate protection of their natural resources.
Siting of settlements within valleys is influenced by many factors, including the need to avoid flooding and the location of river crossing points.
The term is also used to refer to any type of flexible rod of natural wood used in rural crafts such as hazel or ash created through coppicing or pollarding.
For example, algae and seagrass thrive on high nitrogen quantities, but they block sunlight and consume oxygen that other plants and organisms need.
Land consumption as part of human resource consumption is the conversion of land with healthy soil and intact habitats into areas for industrial agriculture, traffic (road building) and especially urban human settlements.
The IEA has developed a plan, called the Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS), which would lead to an 800 Mtoe decrease in global energy consumption by utilizing changes in the sectors of residential and transport energy.
The radioactive elements could be a defining constituent, such as uranium in uraninite, autunite, and carnotite, or present as trace impurities, as in zircon.
In Pakistan, walls made of rubble and concrete, cast in a formwork, are called 'situ', which probably derives from Sanskrit (similar to the Latin 'in situ' meaning 'on the spot').
The following issues are considered below: The role of technology; resource decoupling and the rebound effect; a declining-state economy; the possibility of having capitalism without growth; and the possibility of pushing some of the terrestrial limits into outer space.
The report preferenced creation of a railway ahead of a transcontinental highway, given the affordances rail gives to industry.
Through their authorities (mayors and chiefs), they would file their claims and complaints to the authorities of the Royal Audiencia.
Magnesium: Apart from the sources of borax, there are also pure magnesium deposits in Sverdlovsk and Chelyabinsk, with production of 800,000 tonnes.
The Lewis & Clark College undergraduate, graduate school, and law campus grounds collectively occupy 137 acres (554,000 m2), centered on the M.
While land prices have surged in the first few years of the 21st century, land consumption economy still lacks environmental full-cost accounting to add the long-term costs of environmental degradation.
Material and sediment flux Through anthropogenic impact the material flux of rivers has changed, which enters the sea and has a strong effect on coastal and shelf environments.
It was created in a former quarry site, that was used for gravel extraction for years, on Via Bartolomeo Chesi south of the Via Aurelia ring road in the Malagrotta area.
These controls are intended to allow adequate light and ventilation between buildings and on roads, and to ensure a decent quality of housing.
Easyride (1976) Easyride was developed by Vera to test whether ex-addicts and ex-offenders could deliver safe, reliable, and cost-effective door-to-door transportation services for those who cannot use regular public transportation due to physical or mental impairments.
Much of the existing literature on urban consolidation comes from Australia; some of the world's first government-official urban consolidation policies were enacted in Sydney and Melbourne to increase construction of higher-density terrace housing in the late 19th century.
Incorporation of a pretreatment system, such as a hydrodynamic separator, can prolong the longevity of the entire system by preventing the primary treatment practice from becoming prematurely clogged.
Bushey Cemetery, Hertfordshire (2017) was redesigned by J & L Gibbons with Waugh Thistleton Architects, creating a tranquil woodland burial ground was shortlisted for the RIBA Stirling Prize in 2018.
Inner London Project (1975) The goal of Inner London Probation and After-Care Service (ILPAS) was to deliver verified community ties information about defendants to magistrates.
The plan was partly realized, on a reduced scale, with the Greek amphitheater, Voorhies Memorial and the Colonnade of Civic Benefactors, completed in 1919.
However, as more trees were planted people's perception of the project as a parking lot destroyer had met with increasing tolerance.
Renaissance culture later spread to Venice, the heart of a Mediterranean empire controlling trade routes with the east since its participation in the Crusades and following the journeys of Marco Polo between 1271 and 1295.
Sustainability Critics argue that SUA is not truly sustainable, as it requires the use of energy, water, and other resources, which may not be available in sufficient quantities in urban areas.
While this activity is often connected with religious practice, it has been introduced into medical settings for spiritual and secular usage alike.
The first French resident general in Morocco, Hubert Lyautey, appointed Henri Prost to oversee the urban development of cities under his control.
Technology The Technology team was responsible for compiling creek data and publicizing the Arcade Creek Project through informational videos and the Arcade Creek Project website.
It's Arbor Day, Charlie Brown/Charlie Brown's All Stars!: Original Soundtrack Recordings is a soundtrack album by American jazz pianist Vince Guaraldi released on March 20, 2026, in the U.S.
In Rhode Island, US, "wild oyster populations are at an all-time low", according to Eric Schneider, the principal marine biologist with the Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management's Division of Marine Fisheries.
Land art changed the way people thought of art; it took art out of the gallery or museum and into the natural landscape, the product of which were huge works engaging elements of the environment.
Benefits of having road verges include visual aesthetics, increased safety and comfort of sidewalk users, protection from spray from passing vehicles, and a space for benches, bus shelters, street lights, and other public amenities.
Often as part of a larger pattern of tactical urbanism, some opponents of hostile architecture have responded to it directly to undermine its intended effects.
In north India, Brihat-samhita by Varāhamihira is the widely cited ancient Sanskrit text from 6th century describing the design and construction of Nagara style of Hindu temples.
Sustainable urban agriculture is an emerging field that involves the practice of growing fruits, vegetables, and other food crops within city limits, using methods that are environmentally friendly and socially responsible.
In 1959, Esherick was the co-founder, along with William Wurster and Vernon DeMars, of Berkeley's influential College of Environmental Design (CED).
Buildings are rated and certified on a scale of "Pass", "Good", "Very Good", "Excellent" and "Outstanding".
Batty Langley was also thought to be an important Freemason; his naming of his son Hiram was a reference to the architect, prominent in Masonic tradition and symbolism, of Solomon's Temple, and many of his books were dedicated to his Masonic brethren.
For example, from 2011 to 2014, a nonprofit organization named The Greening of Detroit planted thousands of new trees to restore Detroit's tree canopy.
The climate restoration movement is committed to lowering carbon dioxide (CO2) levels below 300 parts per million (ppm)—the levels at which humans evolved and have thrived.
Much of the research into individual and small community practices are only able to analyze a limited amount of data and cannot fully conclude if the small community changes will result in changes at a larger scale.
The European Foundation for Landscape Architecture (EFLA) - currently IFLA EUROPE is the professional organisation for landscape architecture in Europe.
King (ed.), Buildings and Society: Essays on the Social Development of the Built Environment, London 1980 Robert Gutman, "Architecture from the Outside In: Selected Essays by Robert Gutman (ed.
See also Forestiere Underground Gardens Pot farming Rooftop farming Vertical farming == References ==
This requires the planning committee to decide what actions need to take place to effectively implement the plan.
See also Green belt Linear village One-off housing Towards an Urban Renaissance Urban Sprawl == References ==
The project also has more traditional private allotments, similar to those in other local P-Patch gardens.
The development of cities is therefore intimately linked to the causes and impacts of climate change.
Cinéma en plein air, an outdoor movie theatre, site of an annual film festival; Le TARMAC (former Théâtre de l'Est Parisien), venue for world performance art and dance companies touring from "La Francophonie", has moved to 159 avenue Gambetta in the 20th arrondissement.
Gallery Wrocław Dwarfs in other cities As a sign of friendship, sculptures of a dwarf are installed in Berlin, Kaunas and Lviv.
Additionally, shareholders can harvest their produce themselves from specially designated plots at certain Food Project growing sites.
Following this, Wurster embarked on a tour of Europe, where he encountered art and design he had previously only known through books, before returning to the United States in 1923 and heading to New York where he joined the office of Delano and Aldrich, who were known for their work on the John D.
The exact description of this job can change solely based on the company that has posted the job description, but according to the BLS, " Landscape or maintain grounds of property using hand or power tools or equipment.
The subsequent reduction in the number of herbivores confers a fitness benefit to the plant and demonstrates the indirect defensive capabilities of semiochemicals.
As one visitor, Peter Beyen, puts it: "The artist believes that architectural control goes against nature and thus also against architecture… To the Finnish artist Marco Casagrande designing is not sufficient.
SUDS infrastructure has become a large part of the Blue-Green Cities demonstration project in Newcastle upon Tyne.
The transition movement featured in the 2015 film Demain Publications Books A number of books have been published on specific topics, including: how communities can develop their Transition town initiative.
Turrell began work in 1972 on possibly the largest piece of land art thus far, reshaping the earth surrounding the extinct Roden Crater volcano in Arizona.
The presence of railways and waterways provided favorable conditions for the establishment of industrial settlements.
It suggested two options for the railroad approach: one from the north side, which already existed but requires bridging the Pasig River, and another from the south side, which would cut through the city and require elevated tracks.
The program has produced several broadly cultivated Bermuda grass varieties for many decades, such as Tifway 419, which remains widely used for sports fields and lawns.
Some Thoughts on the Issue of Morphologically Defining the City., RWTH Aachen 2010, [electronic resource].
Talks between Earthpark and the city of Coralville, Iowa, the original planned location of Earthpark, ended in 2006.
The competition wanted to address, "the theoretical and practical parameters, social and physical, of a micro-community in a suburban context with a focus on housing; the second concerned a community centre", calling for proposals for a ‘quarter-section’ site south of central Chicago.
The plan suggested incorporating water elements in Manila's parks, inspired by Rome's use of fountains and water features.
As in Chess, the location of these figures (which represent metropolitan functions) determines the results of the 'game,' i.e.
Specification Coordination Checklist - Checklist of items to coordinate this section with other sections.
The three legs are under the control of the governance system, which is what unites the policy making of the three realms.
The Frame Lake Trail, a partially paved pathway 5.5 kilometres (3.4 mi) in length, closely follows the shoreline past an extensive area of forest.
For example, companies like KD Landscaping in Syracuse, New York, illustrate this broader approach by offering comprehensive property maintenance services.
Deb Niemeier, an American civil and environmental engineer from UCLA, said Martens has created an innovative analytical framework centered on accessibility and justice.
In 2022, the project was part of Cumbria-wide river restoration work which was awarded the European River Prize by the International River Foundation.
Up close, visitors can investigate the textured surface of the structure, and they are invited to interact with the sculpture by walking through the interior.
Mushrooms, particularly Agaricus bisporus, have been cultivated underground in France since the late 1800s.
Durability is described by Cooper as "the ability of a product to perform its required function over a lengthy period under normal use conditions of use without excessive expenditure on maintenance or repair" (p.
Systematic studies have found that MPO policy committees' representations of urban municipalities and disadvantaged minority populations in their areas are less than proportional to population.
It does not show detailed data of individual species, but shows overall trends, and the data can be downloaded via a web-app "to allow trends for different taxonomic groups or regions to be explored and compared".
Origins Naturescaping takes some of its principles from the US Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) "GreenScaping" or "Beneficial Landscaping" programs — which strive to reduce water, energy, and chemical usage.
In recent years, Haiti has seen an increase in the amount of clothing coming from the United States as a result of fast fashion.
Community-supported agriculture One of the main tenets of The Food Project is that the land that the program uses is a part of the community and therefore must be integrated.
Lean product development (LPD) is an approach to product development that specializes in minimizing waste.
The French conquest of Tunisia took place in 1881 and resulted in the establishment of a French "Protectorate", while nominally retaining the existing Tunisian monarchy.
Earthworm casts are five times richer in available nitrogen, seven times richer in available phosphates and eleven times richer in available potash than the surrounding upper 150 millimetres (5.9 in) of soil.
Sociological implications The concept of the neighbourhood unit historically correspond to activities of American wave of school of urban studies and ecology called Chicago school, operating mostly in the 1920s and 1930s.
At the same time, however, constructing paths and roads and connecting them to the Chausseenetz of the district of Teltow became necessary.
Some of the criticisms of SUA include: Feasibility and scalability Critics argue that SUA may not be able to meet the food needs of a large urban population, as the amount of land available for farming within cities is limited.
In 2010 Black Urban Growers put on the first annual Black Farmers and Urban Growers Conference with over 500 participants.
The main projects involved have been the Sustainable Rural Alternatives Seminar Series, the creation of a resource library, and the Climate Change Awareness and Action Pilot Project in the Davidson School Division (which is now part of the Sun West School Division).
The garden area is run by Kumpulan Siirtolapuutarhayhdistys r.y (the Kumpula Allotment Garden Association), which leases allotments to its members.
The clothes are so affordable, that a used boy's t-shirt from the United States could be sold for as little as thirteen cents in Haiti.
Urban morphology is the study of the formation of human settlements and the process of their formation and transformation.
The first CUD Conference took place in February 2008 in San Francisco, the second is planned for Amsterdam in September 2008.
When Mies fled in 1938, he first fled to England, but on emigrating to the US he went to Chicago, founded the Second School of Chicago at IIT and solidified his reputation as a prototypical modern architect.
There are many variations on these LID practices, and some practices may not be suitable for a given site.
See also Computer animation 3D computer graphics Architectural rendering References External links American Institute of Architects Official website National Association of Home Builders Official website
In 2021, plans for a solar development project near Double Negative were rejected due to resident protests against the project's effect on the artwork.
In the UK the limit is set at 42 dB measured from the nearest neighbour according to the MCS 020 standard or equivalent.
The University of the Built Environment identifies a range of benefits of sustainability certification, including reduced environmental impact, increase in value, and savings in operation and maintenance costs.
By the early 1900s, the front yard had become an accepted, "buffer between the private home and the public street".
The Bike Arc family includes the Rack Arc, the Half Arc, the Umbrella Arc, the Tube Arc, the Car Arc, the Bus Arc, the House Arc, and the Ad Arc.
Longitudinal section of the Stubenrauch Bridge on the homepage of Lucke-Umpfenbach, which was also involved in the renovation of the bridge in 1999 Stubenrauchbrücke on www.worldpress.com
The advantages of underground farming are that it is independent of the environment above the ground.
The plan of the garden is inspired the historical role of the Gare Montparnasse as the train station that connected Paris to Brittany and the Atlantic Ocean.
A water table is a projection of masonry on the lower outside of a wall, slightly above the ground, or at the top of a wainscot section of a wall (in this case also known as a sill).
It is an awakening message from the tradition, a recognition of the whole based upon a new concept of beauty that extends beyond the instant gratification.
The Plan was the physical continuation of a previously developed exercise of Strategic Urban Planning in 1989-1994 and established a framework for the future development of the Metropolis of Madrid.
Earwig and the Witch had its world premiere on October 18, 2020, at the Lumière Film Festival, before premiering in Japan on television on December 30, 2020, on NHK General TV; it was later released in theatres in Japan by Toho on August 27, 2021.
Bridge designs such as concrete bridges that are sustainable, recyclable, durable and can be built quickly, reducing greenhouse gas emissions caused by traffic delays and construction equipment.
The Columbia Agriculture Park is a public park in Columbia, Missouri, focusing on food production and distribution.
Marina Mariette Alfons Yee (17 April 1958 – 1 November 2025) was a Belgian fashion designer and a founding member of the Antwerp Six, a group of influential Belgian fashion designers.
Some people complained that the project delayed the construction of the public park at that site, that the project was approved too quickly, and that it was a waste of money.
In December 2011 the project received $100,000 from the Department of Neighborhoods to begin phase one of the food forest plan.
Similarly, in 1996, Minot Milling (a division of Philadelphia Macaroni Company) came to Minot with the help of the MAGIC Fund although it turned out the company did not need monetary assistance.
Given the economic importance of Bermuda grass (as a turf product, agricultural forage, and, at times, as an invasive weed), it has been the subject of numerous studies.
Overgrowth of algal blooms makes water worse overall and disrupts the natural balance of aquatic ecosystems.
An annual element is composed of transportation improvement projects contained in an area's transportation improvement program (TIP), which is proposed for implementation during the current year.
All construction must comply with guidelines stipulated by the city of Helsinki and the association.
The Green Cathedral or De Groene Kathedraal located near Almere in the Netherlands, is an artistic planting of Lombardy poplars (Populus nigra italica) that mimics the size and shape of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame, Reims, France.
The study of power-laws is closely linked to the study of critical phenomena in physics, in which emergent properties and scale invariance are central and organizing concepts.
History Regulating Lines have been used in early buildings like Notre-Dame de Paris and Michelangelo's Piazza del Campidoglio in Rome, etc.
Green infrastructure practices reduce runoff by capturing stormwater and allowing it to recharge groundwater supplies or be harvested for purposes like landscaping.
The International Environmental Design Contest (IEDC) is a competition hosted by the WERC Consortium and The Institute for Energy & The Environment at New Mexico State University.
Michigan and the Great Lakes Michigan and the Great Lakes are analyzed to see the values and connections shared within the residents of Michigan.
In theatre, a lighting designer (or LD) works with the director, choreographer, set designer, costume designer, and sound designer to create the lighting, atmosphere, and time of day for the production in response to the text while keeping in mind issues of visibility, safety, and cost.
The purpose of the Institute is to build and maintain a stable food system, to take care of the local ecosystems, and to improve the quality of life in the rural areas.
Minot Milling, anchor tenant of the complex, recently celebrated its tenth anniversary of operations in Minot and was named the recipient of the Corporate Citizenship Award for its years of service to the community and for being such a valuable asset to the Ag Complex.
Species that are threatened are sometimes characterised by the population dynamics measure of critical depensation, a mathematical measure of biomass related to population growth rate.
They are led by anyone who has an interest in the neighbourhoods where they live, work, play or socialize.
27% of those surveyed were making plans for older relatives, 25% were planning for grown-up children, 24% were planning to rent as holiday lets, and 16% were planning to take in lodgers.
Products Bike Arc is patented in both the United States and in Europe (Office for Harmonization In the Internal Market), and the company offers multiple iterations of the same fundamental concept: a modular structure of steel arcs.
Filtration When stormwater is passed through a filter media, solids and other pollutants are removed.
Advanced Building Envelope The building envelope was specially engineered to allow maximum daylighting while minimizing solar gain, which would normally be excessive and require a great deal of active cooling, given that two thirds of the facade is composed of glazing.
An example initiative is the no-idling policy in front of the town and municipal administration buildings.
Recreation The preserve contains 15 miles of multi-use trails and also includes the Lucy Evans Baylands Nature Interpretive Center, the Palo Alto Duck Pond (originally built as a public swimming pool), and baseball and softball fields at the Baylands Athletic Center.
As a result, the world urban population growth curve has up till recently followed a quadratic-hyperbolic pattern.
Further, for every dollar earned through MAGIC Fund activity, an additional 70 cents was added to the local economy.
Encouraged by the success of MAPS, city leaders proposed and adopted "MAPS for Kids", a public school improvement program.
Personal SDE databases do not support multi-user editing, but do support versioning and disconnected editing.
Its Director, Sue Reddington, received an MBE for her work with the farm in the 2000 New Year Honours and one of its first volunteers, Robert Collins, received the same in the 2013 New Year Honours.
The organizing idea for urban economists is the concept of "agglomeration economies", which refers to the causal underpinnings of the benefits and costs that accrue when people come together in physical space.
An example of experimental architecture that considers the entire life cycle of the structure is the Cellophane House.
The ions responsible for salination are: sodium (Na+), potassium (K+), calcium (Ca2+), magnesium (Mg2+) and chlorine (Cl−).
See also List of universities and colleges in Ethiopia Education in Ethiopia References External links EiABC official site Addis Abeba university ETH-EiABC Student Workshop | ETH Zurich EiABC
Because of its scale, missing middle housing may mix into single-family neighborhoods, act as an end-grain of a single-family housing block, act as a transition between higher density housing and single-family housing, or act as a transition from a mixed-use area to a single-family area.
In the most established memorial reefs such as Neptune Memorial Reef, Florida, a marine study survey, estimated that the population numbers of wild sea life went from close to zero to thousands in the space of two years.
Home modifications are defined as environmental interventions aiming to support activity performance in the home.
Such limits may include exclusions from areas of great value to salmon such as ideal spawning grounds or places where young fish may be vulnerable.
They then presented their ideas to Kinsale Town Council, to which the councilors decided to adopt the plan and work towards energy independence.
Through grassroots social justice and a community based approach this organization hopes to "inspire positive local action around food access and social, economic, and racial justice issues." Black Urban Growers They first began in 2009 with community events focused around food.
Further fundraising produced donations of a similar sum to enable expansion, with new animal buildings in 2004.
For example, home modification is more than home improvement, home renovation or remodelling; those three terms refer to changes made to housing for purposes other than disability.
Sometimes, a box is placed inside a kitchen window in order to grow herbs or other supplies for a chef as an easily accessed miniature kitchen garden.
Many butterfly species and some other insects, but particularly male butterflies, need puddles for nutrients they can contain, such as salts and amino acids.
Urban retrofitting is a combination of policies and phenomena done with the goal of undoing or remedying the effects of urban sprawl.
Common examples in the discipline include the interactivity between human and buildings, Interaction between Human and IoT devices, participatory and collective urban design, and so on.
Location of building sites The Government or National Group, which was to include the Capitol Building and Department Buildings, would be located on the present Camp Wallace and adjacent land behind Calle Nozelada.
Double Negative is a piece of land art located in the Moapa Valley on Mormon Mesa (or Virgin River Mesa) near Overton, Nevada.
Methods Either a single species or an area, habitat or ecosystem can be targeted by the recovery plan.
The vacuum cleaner and the dustpans were always emptied on the heap, as were the teapot and the chamberpots we used at night.
“A Comparative Tale of Two Cities in Search of Sustainability: Seattle and London.” In The Sustainable City, WIT Press, 2002.
The False Creek redevelopment was advertised as a park-like nature for new residents and tourists and promoted as a space for leisure.
In addition, children with croup living in urban areas have higher hazard ratios for asthma than similar children living in rural areas.
History The import of pepe began in the 1960s, during the Kennedy administration, leading to the moniker "Kennedy clothes".
In her works, Holt created an intimate connection to nature and the stars, saying, "I feel that the need to look at the sky-at the moon and the stars-is very basic, and it is inside all of us.
For example, Émile Durkheim, a French sociologist, highlighted the sociological impacts of population density and growth in his 1893 dissertation, "The Division of Labour in Society." In his work, Durkheim emphasized the collective social effects of population.
Evolution of the Living Building Standard International Living Future Institute The International Living Future Institute is a non-governmental organization (NGO) committed to catalyzing a global transformation toward true sustainability.
Reference ecosystems are ideally complete with natural flora, fauna, abiotic elements, ecological functions, processes, and successional states.
Human-induced changes in these characteristics can affect boundary permeability to certain organisms or materials.
IFLA Europe works closely with ECLAS (the European Council of Landscape Architecture Schools) and ELASA (the European Landscape Architecture Students' Association), and participates in the Le:Notre thematic network.
Rennis Giovan Battista, 2000, La tradizione popolare della comunità arbëreshe di Lungro, Il Coscile.
High tech tracking methods involving camera traps, forward-looking infrared (FLIR), and radio telemetry were used to aid in locating the animals.
They shall adhere to the following principles: The city as a form of settlement did not arise by chance.
Political career Ljujić-Mijatović became politically active during Bosnia and Herzegovina's socialist era.
These jobs hold a variety of hourly rates ranging from $9.59, which equals an annual pay of $19,960 a year, to $20.61, which holds an annual pay of $42,870.
Pulaski Park, Holyoke, Massachusetts Rahway River Parkway Union County, New Jersey Riverside Park, Hartford, Connecticut Rancho Los Alamitos Gardens, Long Beach, California Riverbend, Walter J.
They too were all seaports and on any one day each hosted a large transient population of Sailors and visiting businessmen.
Towards the end of 2011, students and academics occupied a newly opened Starbucks branch on the South Campus to protest the commercialisation of campus food services and rising prices.
CUD is an ongoing program, to deliver innovative, sustainable models for urban planning and economic development.
The Irish Planning Institute (IPI) is an all-island professional body representing professional planners engaged in physical and environmental planning in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Collings founded the Allotments Extension Association in 1883 to promote the formation of allotments and smallholdings.
By the next year, the program had been transferred once again, this time to the Federal Public Housing Authority, where it was formally abolished.
This discipline mainly focuses on the user perspective and devises various interaction design between the citizen (user) and various urban entities.
The combined population of these towns was 25 million, or a sixth of the country's total population.
In 2018, she resurfaced in Tokyo to attend the opening of a retrospective exhibition at the avant-garde vintage shop Laila, where Yee presented five new designs under the name M.Y.
Locations with shipping lanes, dredging, or commercial harbors are known as continuous broadband sound.
Documentation In 2017, the collective 66 Kolektif documented Tarlataban as part of the Bostan Hikâyeleri (Garden Stories) project, alongside the Kuzguncuk, Yedikule urban gardens, and Roma gardens.
The Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool (EPEAT) is a method for purchasers (governments, institutions, consumers, etc.) to evaluate the effect of a product on the environment.
It is a set of three green slate medallions engraved with the name of the Italian poet and the Roman number of a sonnet on each piece: Petrarch XXXV, Petrarch CXXXII and Petrarch CCCX.
Trained at Edinburgh College of Art under David Skinner, a disciple of Design with Nature author Ian McHarg.
Energy efficiency The Forest Preserves is committed to sustainable building practices with a focus on net-zero energy.
He gives examples of Vastu consultants claiming the need to align the house to magnetic axis for "overall growth, peace and happiness, or that "parallelogram-shaped sites can lead to quarrels in the family", states Narlikar.
These criticisms often target the statistical methods used, suggesting that the relationship between economic output and city size may not be a power law.
For example, a slope that has a rise of 5 feet for every 1000 feet of run would have a slope ratio of 1 in 200.
(eds) Luxury Brands in Emerging Markets, Palgrave Macmillan, London ISBN 9781137330536 References External links Official website
The park was created by a public-private partnership between Columbia Parks and Recreation, the Columbia Farmers Market, the Columbia Center for Urban Agriculture, and Sustainable Farms and Communities.
The island is connected to both banks of the river by footbridges and pedestrian bridges, and its aquatic fauna includes ducks and carps.
Current acceptance The practice has spawned many non-profit groups to form near universities teaching this practice.
The removal of the ship did not take place while Magoon was in office; it was authorized by Congress in 1910.
She has an international profile as a member of the International Scientific Committee for the World Forum on Urban Forests and as a design juror for Europan and the Holcim Foundation committed to sustainable design.
It is both a functional and architectural feature that consists of a projection that deflects water running down the face of a building away from lower courses or the foundation.
“Sustainable Cells of Urbanism: A Regenerative Theory and Practice.” In Future Forms and Design for Sustainable Cities.
The only part of the old city that remained relatively untouched was the upper town, which contained the citadel (qasaba) and the former residence of the rulers, and thus became known as the "Casbah" of Algiers.
With Kent Bloomer, Moore founded the Yale Building Project in 1967 as a way both to demonstrate social responsibility and demystify the construction process for first-year students.
English Richard Long with Pontevedra Line, a small wall 37 m (121 ft) long, made of pieces of white granite, which evokes the idea of the walk as action and thought.
The path usually represents the shortest or the most easily navigated route between an origin and destination.
Miami-Dade Transit has its headquarters in the Overtown Transit Village building at one of its downtown stations.
He initiated a rural and urban fruit forest project by using seed supplies from the Kade Oil Palm Research Institute and Bonsu Cocoa Research Station.
This category is used for "widespread and abundant taxa" Data Deficient (DD) – there is not enough data on the species to be able to make a reliable assessment on the status of the species Not evaluated (NE) – the species has not yet been evaluated US The U.S.
Waste prevention strategies In planning for facilities, a comprehensive design strategy is needed for preventing the generation of solid waste.Improper waste disposal is associated with increasing pollution, climate change, and other hazardous emissions that pose risks to human wellbeing.
Hobby farmers are evaluated by the Government of Canada to determine whether they are a commercial or pleasure farm based on criteria from a test.
This is their biggest site totalling 2 acres and receives a great deal of traffic from pedestrians, cyclists and drivers.
It is described by the Institute as a philosophy, advocacy tool and certification program that promotes the measurement of sustainability in the built environment.
Permaculture Institute Projects (Educational Programs) The goal of the educational initiatives and projects is to promote lifelong learning with emphases on vocational training, and the need of viable skill development using practices of sustainable development.
Education and career Tignol was awarded a PhD (1988) at the Université catholique de Louvain for his thesis Involution bodies of finite rank at their center and with characteristic other than 21 written under the supervision of Jacques Tits.
He was able to reconstruct the Alexandrian Christian calendar and its origin from the Alexandrian Jewish calendar as of about the 4th century, at least 200 years prior to any other source for either calendar.
Today, his best known work is Über eine Klasse von Differentialsystemen beliebiger Ordnung mit festen kritischen Punkten (Crelle's Journal, 1912).
Publications Several books devoted to numbers and history of numbers and number related topics including: 1981: Histoire Universelle des Chiffres (Paris) English translation (1985): From one to zero.
in 1989 from Princeton University as a student of Charles Gillispie, with the thesis Studies on James Gregorie (1638–1675).
Due to his collaboration on a 1977 paper with the Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdős, Wilson has an Erdős number of 1.
References External links Home page at Department ABC, Politecnico di Milano Living on a Fringe Environment, research project directed by Rossi Corinna Rossi publications indexed by Google Scholar
Yanovskaya, Adolf Pavlovich Yushkevich is 60 (in Russian), Russian Mathematical Surveys 22 (1967), 187–194.
Moore (November 2, 1936 – July 26, 2023) was an American mathematician who worked in the theory of operator algebras and topological groups.
At the University of Tel Aviv, Corry became in 1985 an instructor, in 1996 a lecturer, in 2004 an associate professor and from 2007 a full professor in the Cohn Institute for the History of Science.
Freudenthal, Hans (1960), Lincos: design of a language for cosmic intercourse, Studies in logic and the foundations of mathematics, North-Holland Pub.
Dietrich Mahnke (17 October 1884, Verden – 25 July 1939, Fürth) was a German philosopher and historian of mathematics.
With Janet Beery, she co-edited Thomas Harriot’s Doctrine of Triangular Numbers: the 'Magisteria Magna' (European Mathematical Society, 2009).
Textbooks 1987: Topics in Intermediate Algebra (Wiley) 1987: Developmental Mathematics: Arithmetic, Algebra, and Measurement Geometry (Wiley) 2003: Mathematics for High School Teachers: An Advanced Perspective (with Zalman Usiskin, Anthony Peressini, and Dick Stanley, Prentice Hall) == References ==
A member of the American Historical Association, he has also served as the president of the affiliated Organization of History Teachers, and of the East-Central American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies.
2000, Diagrammatic reasoning and modelling in the imagination: the secret weapons of the Scientific Revolution, in: 1543 and All That: Image and Word, Change and Continuity in the Proto-Scientific Revolution, ed.
McLarty has also written about the German algebraist Emmy Noether and her involvement with German political history.
Then in 1975 he became Professor of History of Natural Science and Mathematics at the University of Hamburg and Director of the Institute until he retired in 1995.
Howard Stein (January 21, 1929 – March 8, 2024) was an American philosopher and historian of science.
She held teaching positions at the University of Massachusetts Lowell, at Mount Holyoke College and at Arkansas State University before joining Saint Louis University, where for 25 years she was a professor of mathematics and computer science.
Education and career Huffman is the daughter of an accounting professor at Pittsburg State University, and majored in mathematics education at Pittsburg State University, where she graduated in 1986, continuing for a master's degree in 1987.
He headed the London School of Jewish Studies from 1971 to 1982, and the hesder yeshiva Birkat Moshe in Ma'ale Adumim from 1982 until his death.
On June 3, 1951, he was elected the corresponding member to the class of mathematical sciences of the Società Nazionale di Scienze Lettere e Arti in Napoli: subsequently, he became an ordinary member (2 June 1951) and ordinary non-resident member (15 December 1953).
In 1909 a chair in the history of philosophy in its relationship to the sciences was created for him at the Sorbonne.
Manekin and Hans Hinrich Biesterfeldt.) Verzeichniss der Hebräischen Handschriften der Königlichen Bibliothek zu Berlin.
His initial courses in Zurich were in civil engineering, but in his second year (under the influence of Karl Geiser) he switched to mathematics and physics.
Ore's early work on lattice theory led him to the study of equivalence and closure relations, Galois connections, and finally to graph theory, which occupied him to the end of his life.
ISBN 0-7679-2033-3 The Artist and the Mathematician: The Story of Nicolas Bourbaki, the Genius Mathematician Who Never Existed, 2007.
In the last years of his life, as Swami Vidyaranya, he lived mainly at Pushkar, a Hindu holy site in Rajasthan.
Eventually she returned to teaching, at Goldsmiths' College and then, in 1957, as head of mathematics at the Stockwell College of Education.
in Which Colored Diagrams Are Used Instead of Letters for the Greater Ease of Learners" in The American Mathematical Monthly.
She co-authored The Secret Lives of Numbers in 2023, a highly acclaimed work on the history of mathematics.
Academic career Roque is a professor at the Institute of Mathematics (IM) of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), with a Ph.D.
Education and career Cormack obtained her BA from the University of Calgary and her MA from the University of Toronto before earning her Ph.D.
Copeland is also President of the US Society for Machines and Mentality and a member of the UK Bletchley Park Trust Heritage Advisory Panel.
Hill (who joined Temple University's faculty in 1973) on the textbook Linear Algebra Labs with MATLAB.
References External links Feferman (Anita Burdman) Papers, Stanford University Archives, via Online Archive of California
Recognition Feferman was awarded Guggenheim Fellowships in 1972 and 1986 and the Rolf Schock Prize in logic and philosophy in 2003.
In this pre-war period in Amsterdam, he was promoted to lecturer at the University of Amsterdam, and married his wife, Suus Lutter, a Dutch teacher.
Chemla, "Adolf-Andrei Pavlovich Yushkevich (conversation recorded by Karine Chemla)", in Voprosy Istorii Estestvoznaniya i Techniki, 1994, s.a.
Neumann showed in 1997 that Alhazen's problem (reflecting a light ray off a spherical mirror to hit a target) cannot be solved with a straightedge and compass construction.
Life and work After graduating from high school in 1919 at the Wilhelm Gymnasium in Munich, Hofmann studied at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) with Walther von Dyck and George Faber, gaining a Ph.D.
After positions as lecturer and visiting associate professor at different institutions, Tiles became associate professor of philosophy at University of Hawaii at Manoa in 1989, and full professor in 1992.
Rowe: American Mathematics Comes of Age: 1875–1900, in Peter Duren (ed.): A Century of Mathematics in America.
With his former student Karl Faber, he wrote a book on the theory of partial differential equations of the first order using methods of Lie group theory.
See also American philosophy Axiomatic set theory S of Boolos (1989) General set theory, Boolos's axiomatic set theory just adequate for Peano and Robinson arithmetic.
Life Wussing graduated from high school, and from 1947 to 52 studied mathematics and physics at the University of Leipzig.
doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-599661-7.50019-7 in David Rowe, John McCleary (eds.) History of modern mathematics.
Folkerts (Ed.), Mathematische Probleme im Mittelalter: Der lateinische und arabische Sprachbereich, Wolfenbütteler Mittelalter-Studien Vol.
Life and work Bjørnbo was born Axel Anthon Christensen, in Copenhagen, the son of artist Anthonore Christensen and philologist Richard Christensen.
Zweiter Theil: Die analytische Geometrie des Raumes (1901), which went through several editions over two decades.
Pier was primarily responsible for the creation in January 1989 of the Luxembourg Mathematical Society, of which he was president from 1989 to 1993 and again from 1995 to 1998.
His most important works deal with the biographies of Leonhard Euler, Bartel Leendert van der Waerden, David Hilbert, Felix Klein.
Wu Wenjun (Chinese: 吴文俊; 12 May 1919 – 7 May 2017), also commonly known as Wu Wen-tsün, was a Chinese mathematician, historian, and writer.
See also History of Hindu Mathematics: A Source Book, Datta's magnum opus on Hindu (Indic) mathematics External links Biography == References ==
Biography At the age of seventeen, Miller began school-teaching to raise funds for higher education.
Books Croarken is the author of the book Early Scientific Computing in Britain (Clarendon Press, 1990).
Camille Jordan had given a list for degree 9 in 1872, re-examined by Cole, and brought up to 258 groups by Miller.
He also catalogued all the mathematical and astronomical manuscripts and produced a catalogue of about 2000 entries.
As well as quaternion algebras, Eichler orders, quadratic forms, and Shimura curves (the subject of the book), other topics in her research include automorphic forms, diophantine equations, elliptic curves, modular curves, and zeta functions.
From 1970 to 2012, David Zitarelli was a faculty member in the mathematics department of Temple University.
In 2014 at the ICM in Seoul, he was an invited speaker with talk One hundred years after the Great War (1914–2014): A century of breakdowns, resumptions and fundamental changes in international mathematical communication.
He joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1951 before teaching at Brandeis University, Case Western Reserve University and Columbia University.
James, British Society for the History of Science, 1997) Piero Della Francesca: A Mathematician's Art (Yale University Press, 2005) Byzantine and Arabic Mathematical Gearing (with D.
Speiser's book Theorie der Gruppen endlicher Ordnung is a classic, richly illustrated work on group theory.
Terquem rejected the Talmud, proposed to codify intermarriage between Jews and non-Jews, pushed to move the sabbath to Sunday, advocated using other languages than Hebrew for prayers, and fought against circumcision, regressive attitudes towards women, and the Jewish calendar.
His field of activity He chose fields far removed from that of theology proper, e.g., mathematics, philology, natural history, and medicine, to display the part which the Jews had taken in the general history of civilization (Kulturgeschichte).
References Attribution: This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Lee, Sidney, ed.
Starting from 1879 he studied under Karl Weierstrass, Alexander von Brill, and Hermann Amandus Schwarz at the University of Munich, at the Technische Hochschule in Munich (now Technical University of Munich), at the University of Berlin and at the University of Göttingen.
She was co-editor (with Pierre Costabel) of the correspondence of Johann Bernoulli (Birkhäuser 1988, 1992) and published a French translation of the geometry of Albrecht Dürer.
There remains the class of elliptic surfaces, which are fiber bundles over a curve with elliptic curves as fiber, having a finite number of modifications (so there is a bundle that is locally trivial actually over a curve less some points).
Li discovered independently an equivalent version of what is known today as Descartes' rule of signs.
Upon retiring from Hunter College, Simons founded a $1000 scholarship for the university named after the mathematics honour society, Pi Mu Epsilon.
Fujiwara was an important contributor to the development of the Mathematical Institute of the University of Tokyo.
(See Henri Poincaré.) Die Theorie der komplexen Funktionen 1780–1900, in: Hans Niels Jahnke (ed.): Geschichte der Analysis, Spektrum Verlag, 1999, pp.
Education and career Imhausen studied mathematics, chemistry, and Egyptology at Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, passing the Staatsexamen in 1996.
Other research work and publications Aside from his academic work, Flood is active in communicating mathematics and its history to non-specialist audiences.
He did research on number theory, probability theory, relativity theory, astronomy, and actuarial science.
Gustaf Hjalmar Eneström (5 September 1852 – 10 June 1923) was a Swedish mathematician, statistician and historian of mathematics known for introducing the Eneström index, which is used to identify Euler's writings.
Markushevich was elected in 1945 a corresponding member and in 1950 a full member of Академии педагогических наук РСФСР (Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic).
The journal is named after the New Zealand physicist Ernest Rutherford (1871–1937), who studied at the Canterbury College (Christchurch).
She taught mathematics at Avery Hill College beginning in 1968, retiring in 1981 but continuing on a part-time basis for another 20 years, through the college's 1985 incorporation into the University of Greenwich.
degree from University of Singapore in 1966, and becoming a lecturer at the University of Singapore.
His work was criticized both by neo-Kantians and by more mainstream, rationalist logicians, to whom Becker feistily replied.
She was born and lived in Göttingen in Germany (where her parents worked at the university) until 1908.
Book Kent is the coauthor of Game Theory: A Playful Introduction (with Matt DeVos, Student Mathematical Library 80, American Mathematical Society, 2016).
Recognition In 1997 Stevens received the Deborah and Franklin Haimo Award for Distinguished College or University Teaching of Mathematics.
in History and the Philosophy of Science; from 1993 to 1995 studied classics at Christ College, Cambridge University, where he obtained his doctorate in 1995.
She studied mathematics and mathematics education at Trinity College Dublin, and met her husband there.
Yabuuchi's best known work on the history of Chinese mathematics, 支那数学史 (History of Chinese mathematics, published in 1944), was translated into French with the title Une histoire des mathématiques chinoises (2000, Editions Belin) by Kaoru Baba and Catherine Jami.
Engel translated the works of Nikolai Lobachevski from Russian into German, thus making these works more accessible.
Whilst suffering from cancer, Stedall joined the Painswick Friends' meeting house, which "helped her find peace with her illness".
He then traveled to Europe where he attended the Humboldt University of Berlin during 1898 and received a Ph.D.
Taniyama–Weil conjecture) based on a roughly formulated question of Taniyama at the 1955 Nikkō conference.
As regards his History of Arithmetics (Άριθμητικὴ ἱστορία) we only have the tiniest bit of information: there is only one testimonium, saying that Eudemus mentions the discovery by the Pythagoreans that it is possible to connect musical intervals with integer numbers.
She is a co-editor of The History of Mathematical Tables: from Sumer to Spreadsheets (Oxford University Press, 2003) and of Mathematics at the Meridian: The History of Mathematics at Greenwich (Chapman & Hall / CRC, 2020) == References ==
Plato's Trilogy: Theaetetus, the Sophist, and the Statesman (University of Chicago Press, 1977) Jacob Klein: Lectures and Essays ed.
He has published on Rudolf Clausius, ancient Greek writings about Archimedes, applied mathematicians' use of measuring instruments, and philosophical influences on mathematicians.
Corinna Rossi (born 1968) is an Italian Egyptologist known for her works on Ancient Egyptian mathematics and Ancient Egyptian architecture, on the archaeology of the Kharga Oasis, and on related topics in the history of Egypt and the Levant.
Early life and education Stubhaug was born in Naustdal Municipality on 25 May 1948, a son educator Lidvald Stubhaug and nurse Borghild Daltveit.
in the history of mathematics in 1974 at the University of Basel, also with studies at Stony Brook University.
Purkert completed (during 2013–2018) the biography of Hausdorff (Volume IB of the edition) begun by Egbert Brieskorn (1936–2013) and also edited Hausdorff's correspondence (Volume IX of the edition).
She is known for incorporating her interest in handbell ringing and her collection of clothing from her foreign travels into her mathematics classes.
Since 1985, Robin Wilson has edited the mathematics on stamps "Stamp Corner" column for the Mathematical Intelligencer.
Grabiner joined the mathematics department at Pitzer College in 1985, and has been the Flora Sanborn Pitzer Professor of Mathematics since 1994.
He examined Arabic trigonometric works in collaboration with Rasmus Olsen Besthorn and Hebrew texts with David Simonsen and published his studies on Menelaus of Alexandria's spherics in 1902 and received a doctorate.
Thibaut who took part in Franco-German War of 1870 as a noncommissioned officer joined the Muir Central College, Allahabad some 22 years ago as Professor of Philosophy.
Yvonne Dold-Samplonius : Calculating Surface Areas and Volumes in Islamic Architecture, The Enterprise of Science in Islam, New Perspectives, Eds.
of Minnesota Press, 1957) Theory of Graphs (1962) Graphs and Their Uses (1963) The Four-Color Problem (1967) Invitation to Number Theory (1969) Articles by Ore "On the foundation of abstract algebra (1)".
With Norbert Schappacher and Joachim Schwermer, she is editor of the book The shaping of arithmetic after C.
Contributions to mathematics Shtokalo published several works on the history of mathematics, specifically on advancements made by Ukrainian mathematicians.
In 1939, after the Zentralblatt was taken over by the Nazis, he moved to the United States, joined the mathematics department at Brown University, and founded Mathematical Reviews.
In 1966 he published a facsimile reprint of Ulrich Wagner's 1483 Bamberger Rechenbuch (Bamberg arithmetic book), of which he had access to a copy in the Zentralbibliothek Zürich.
doi:10.1093/bjps/41.3.351 Colin McLarty, 'Emmy Noether’s ‘Set Theoretic’ Topology: From Dedekind to the rise of functors' in The Architecture of Modern Mathematics: Essays in history and philosophy (edited by Jeremy Gray and José Ferreirós), Oxford University Press (2006) p.
After passing his Abitur in 1880 he studied mathematics and physics at the University of Berlin, but also listened to lectures on philosophy, psychology, education, and history.
Leslie Leland Locke (1875–1943) was an American mathematician, historian, and educator, best known for his work towards deciphering ancient Andean knot records called quipus.
Academic career From 1988 to 1996 she was Professor at the Department of Mathematics, National University of Singapore (NUS).
He worked on (nonlinear) ordinary differential equations and the topological methods used there (fixed-point theorems, Leray-Schauder theory) and methods of nonlinear functional analysis.
Research Curtis introduced Curtis duality, a duality operation on the characters of a reductive group over a finite field.
Jacob Klein (March 3, 1899 – July 16, 1978) was a Russian-American philosopher and interpreter of Plato, who worked extensively on the nature and historical origin of modern symbolic mathematics.
In 1971 he created the Séminaire de mathématiques at the Centre universitaire de Luxembourg (now the University of Luxembourg).
His last book, Unendliche Sphäre und Allmittelpunkt, Beiträge zur Genealogie der mathematischen Mystik was a study of the use of mathematical symbolism, especially the notion of "infinite spheres", in religious mysticism.
Life and work Nielsen was the son of humble peasants and grew up in the western part of the island of Funen.
Projects and scientific activity She was a member of the British Mission to Tell al-Amarna from 2000 to 2003.
Furthermore, he contributed an article on the work of Paramesvara: "Paramesvara's rule for the circumradius of a cyclic quadrilateral".
Braunmühl was born in Tiflis but came from a Bavarian family and his father had gone as an architect to build a palace.
Ivor Grattan-Guinness described the Histoire as a milestone: His first volume covered Greek, Roman, and Eastern traditions, while the second covered geometry, mechanics and optics up to the seventeenth century.
While a professor, he did research in industrial quality control and other areas, and also authored textbooks.
Locke later expanded his initial 1912 article into a full-length book, publishing The Ancient Quipu or Peruvian Knot Record through the American Museum of Natural History in 1923.
Kenneth Ownsworth May (July8, 1915 – December 1, 1977) was an American mathematician and historian of mathematics, who developed May's theorem.
Itō taught at the University of Tokyo, as Professor, from 1978 to 1989, and in International Research Center for Japanese Studies from 1989 to 1995, and in Reitaku University from 1995.
Re-published in the Obras sobre Matemática, volumes IV, V et VII, 1908–1915; Chelsea Publishing Co, New York, 1971; Éditions Jacques Gabay, Paris, 1995.
During the war, the staff of the college was reduced, but Taylor continued teaching assisted by Christie Willatts, Alfred Moodie and Eila Campbell, then a Masters student who would go on to become Professor of Geography in Birkbeck in 1970.
Footnotes External links William Dunham at the Mathematics Genealogy Project William Dunham at Muhlenberg College A Tribute to Euler, William Dunham, YouTube Your humble Servant, Is.
They joined the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1952, but by the early 1960s had been expelled from the party for their anti-revisionism (sympathy for Maoism and opposition to the Khrushchev Thaw).
Hot lead typesetting for the work had already started when the Siege of Leningrad prohibited further development and the print matrices were relocated.
Zappa, Guido (1984), "La scuola matematica di Francesco Severi intorno al 1940" [The mathematical school of Francesco Severi around about 1940] (PDF), Rivista di Matematica della Università di Parma, (4) (in Italian), 10*: 11–14, MR 0777309, Zbl 0562.01015.
in the history of mathematics there in 2005; at Brown, her faculty mentors included David Pingree, Alice Slotsky, and Kim Plofker.
About George Johnston Allman O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "George Johnston Allman", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews
Cantor's inaugural dissertation, "Über ein weniger gebräuchliches Coordinaten-System" (1851), gave no indication that the history of exact sciences would soon be enriched by a master work by him.
After this, he became the head of the technology and science section of the Institute of History, also in the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences.
Master of pure and applied mathematics, Springer Verlag 1990 Heaviside's operational calculus and the attempts to rigorise it, Archive for History of Exact Sciences, Volume 21, 1979, pp.
2012: Huygens, Christiaan (Also Huyghens, Christian), Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography, Encyclopedia.com References External links University of Aarhus Staff 155 Notes on Contributors Henk J.
Eneström received a Bachelor of Science (filosofie kandidat) degree from Uppsala university in 1871, received a position at Uppsala University Library in 1875, and at the National Library of Sweden in 1879.
This would lead to his comprehensive survey of the history of trigonometry in two volumes, published in 1900/1903.
Selected publications The development of Newtonian calculus in Britain, 1700-1800, Cambridge University Press, 1989 (paperback 2003).
Li Rui (Chinese: 李锐; pinyin: Lǐ Ruì; 8 December 1768 in Suzhou – 30 June 1817 in Suzhou) was a Chinese mathematician.
After leaving academia to raise a family in Norwich, she became a health research manager in the National Health Service, while continuing to work in the history of science as an independent scholar.
She became a regular-rank faculty member at Hunter College in 1932 and retired from there as an associate professor in 1972.
He ended his teaching career at Northwestern State University, which houses his collection of Gauss-related material, believed to be the largest collection of its kind in the world.
Louis-Gustave du Pasquier (18 August 1876, Auvernier – 31 January 1957, Cornaux) was a Swiss mathematician and historian of mathematics and mathematical sciences.
Education Dunham received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pittsburgh in 1969, his master's degree from Ohio State University in 1970, and his PhD from the same institution in 1974.
She earned a master's degree in mathematics, but was unable to obtain a teaching position with it because the schools she applied to only hired men.
Rickey has broad interests in the history of mathematics with a particular interest in the historical development of calculus and the use of this history to motivate and inspire students.
For two years, he taught undergraduate mathematics at Lehigh University, where he was unappreciated, overworked, and poorly paid, although he did not have to worry about being drafted, unlike his American students.
Smith Award for Distinguished College or University Teaching of the Mathematical Association of America.
"Felix Kleins Beziehungen zu den Vereinigten Staaten, die Anfänge deutscher auswärtiger Wissenschaftspolitik und die Reform um 1900 (Felix Klein's relations with the United States, the beginnings of German foreign science policy and the reform at the end of the 19th century)".
He studied mathematics and the history of science at the University of Oklahoma, and took a second doctorate in history at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
During the 1920s and 1930s he created a reputation as an authority on the history of Indian mathematics.
She earned her PhD in 1982 in history from the University of Chicago under the direction of the historian Allen G.
With Soichi Kakeya, he is known for the Eneström-Kakeya theorem which determines an annulus containing the roots of a real polynomial.
See also Algebraic geometry Group theory Italian school of algebraic geometry Francesco Severi Zappa-Szép product Notes References External links Guido Zappa at the Mathematics Genealogy Project Guido Zappa academic member page at the Accademia delle Scienze di Torino.
He addressed Nanson's method where n candidates are ordered by voters into a sequence of preferences.
In 1980 he was a visiting scholar at Yale University (studying under Asger Aaboe) and became a temporary lecturer (a temporary assistant professor position) at Odense University and from 1985 a lecturer at the University of Copenhagen.
Du Pasquier then taught at La Chaux-de-Fonds, Kusnacht, Frauenfeld, Winterthur, and Zurich, before he became a professor at the University of Neuchâtel in 1911.
But Dickson also noted that Wedderburn constructed his second and third proofs only after having seen Dickson's proof.
Michela Malpangotto is an Italian historian of science, specializing in the history of astronomy leading up to the Copernican Revolution, and its associated mathematics (especially spherical geometry and trigonometry).
Boncompagni edited Bullettino di bibliografia e di storia delle scienze matematiche e fisiche ("The bulletin of bibliography and history of mathematical and physical sciences") (1868–1887), the first Italian periodical entirely dedicated to the history of mathematics.
In the 1960s, he took part in the creation of new school textbooks on mathematics, developed the pedagogical theory of school textbooks, and worked on improving the training of school mathematics teachers.
In 1982 he was awarded a full professorship at BIT, where he continued teaching until mandatory retirement in 1995.
A special journal issue on the history of modern computing (with Jack Copeland, Carl Posy, and Parker Bright, The Rutherford Journal), 2010.
He was a visiting professor at the University of Notre Dame (1971–1972), Indiana University at South Bend (1977–1978), the University of Vermont (1984–1985), and the United States Military Academy (1989–1990).
Aristotle, shortly before his death in 322 BC, designated Theophrastus to be his successor as head of the Peripatetic School.
Shagrir received a BSc degree in mathematics and computer science and then an MA degree in Philosophy of Science (supervised by Itamar Pitowsky) from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
He studied philosophy, philology, history, and mathematics at the University of Iași before immigrating to Israel in 1961.
In 1995, she received a Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degree from the University of Oxford for a thesis titled "Old Babylonian coefficient lists and the wider context of mathematics in ancient Mesopotamia 2100-1600 BC".
"From diversis artibus" n o 47, Turnhout, 2000, 544 p., ( ISBN 2-503-51007-8 ), (notice BnF n o FRBNF37734558t ) .
External links Heilbronner, Johann Christoph von Moritz Cantor in: Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie, herausgegeben von der Historischen Kommission bei der Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Band 11 (1880), S.
Book publishing activities He was head of the editorial office of mathematics of the Soviet Издательство технико-теоретической литературы (Publishing House of Technical and Theoretical Literature) from 1934 to 1937 and again from 1943 to 1947.
Reading the Principia: the debate on Newton's mathematical methods for natural philosophy from 1687 to 1736, Cambridge University Press, 1999 (paperback 2003).
After obtaining an honours degree in commerce from Sir George Williams College, he left for Baltimore to pursue a Master of Science degree in mathematics at Johns Hopkins University.
Du Pasquier was an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1920 at Strasbourg, in 1924 at Toronto, in 1928 at Bologna, and in 1932 at Zurich.
Terquem also founded another journal in 1855, the Bulletin de Bibliographie, d'Histoire et de Biographie de Mathématiques, which was published as a supplement to the Nouvelles Annales, and he continued editing it until 1861.
His seminal work Geschichte der Elementarmathematik originally consisted of two volumes, when it was first published in 1902 and 1903.
Sofya Aleksandrovna Yanovskaya (also Janovskaja; Russian: Софи́я Алекса́ндровна Яно́вская; 31 January 1896 – 24 October 1966) was a Soviet mathematician, philosopher and historian, specializing in the history of mathematics, mathematical logic, and philosophy of mathematics.
He translated the two treatises, the Mitacshara of Vijnaneshwara and the Dayabhaga of Jimutavahana, under the title Law of Inheritance.
He published Prime ideals and integral dependence written jointly with Irvin Cohen, which greatly simplified the existing proofs of the going-up and going-down theorems of ideal theory.
She has also studied the history of algebraic curves, and translated the works of Fermat into Russian.
XVI (or Historia matheseos universae; ), 1742 These two books are the first books that named and used the phrase "mathematical history (German: Geschichte der Mathematik, Latin: Historia matheseos)".
Eudemus then returned to Rhodes, where he founded his own philosophical school, continued his own philosophical research, and went on editing Aristotle's work.
Lützen's research deals with the prehistory of distributions (before their precisely defined introduction by Sergei Sobolev around 1936 and Laurent Schwartz around 1950), as well as Joseph Liouville (whose biography he wrote) and Heinrich Hertz and Hertz's mechanics.
Book Schulte's doctoral dissertation, Additions in Arithmetic, 1483-1700, to the Sources of Cajori's 'History of Mathematical Notations' and Tropfke's 'Geschichte Der Elementar-Mathematik', concerned the history of mathematical notation.
Singh received a master's degree from Banaras Hindu University in his hometown (Varanasi was then called Banaras or Benares) in 1924, where he was a student of Ganesh Prasad.
Education and career Du Pasquier studied at l'École Polytechnique, the University of Zurich, La Sorbonne, the Collège de France, and the Collège Libre des Sciences Sociales.
(translated by Abe Shenitzer with the editorial assistance of Hardy Grant, Sarah Shenitzer, and the author Detlev Laugwitz) == References ==
He is perhaps best known for his work with Kolmogorov, and his contributions to the study of probability theory, particularly extreme value theory, with such results as the Fisher–Tippett–Gnedenko theorem.
From 1926 to 1931 he studied physics and mathematics at the universities of Greifswald, Marburg and Göttingen.
Prince Baldassarre Boncompagni-Ludovisi (10 May 1821 – 13 April 1894), was an Italian historian of mathematics and aristocrat.
Life Tropfke was born in Berlin at Marienstraße 14 as the older of two sons of the cabinet maker Franz Tropfke.
After 1936, most of her research was in the history of mathematics, and she had a particular interest in Thomas Harriot, an Elizabethan mathematician.
Just as Ramsey theory elucidates the impossibility of total disorder, discrepancy theory studies the deviations from total uniformity.
If there is a counterexample to the conjecture, then there is also a counterexample consisting only of finite sets.
This strengthened the analogy with the Selberg trace formula to the point where it gives precise statements.
A Cauchy problem in mathematics asks for the solution of a partial differential equation that satisfies certain conditions that are given on a hypersurface in the domain.
Definitions A topological space is homogeneous if, for any two points m 1 , m 2 ∈ M {\displaystyle m_{1},m_{2}\in M} , there is a homeomorphism of M {\displaystyle M} which takes m 1 {\displaystyle m_{1}} to m 2 {\displaystyle m_{2}} .
This bound is tight when m {\displaystyle m} is much larger than n {\displaystyle n} , but not when m {\displaystyle m} and n {\displaystyle n} are nearly equal, in which case the Szemerédi–Trotter theorem provides a tighter O ( n 2 / 3 m 2 / 3 + n + m ) {\displaystyle O(n^{2/3}m^{2/3}+n+m)} bound.
In the minimal-time solutions, the general sends to the right signals S1, S2, S3, ..., Si at speeds 1, 1/3, 1/7, ..., 1/(2 i−1 − 1).
The continued fractions version of Vincent's theorem can be used to isolate the positive roots of a given polynomial p(x) of degree deg(p).
Countering disruption attacks Herbivore divides a large anonymity network into smaller DC-net groups, enabling participants to evade disruption attempts by leaving a disrupted group and joining another group, until the participant finds a group free of disruptors.
Their x-coordinate will vary by 2r since the distance between each center of the spheres are touching is 2r.
(2001), "The number of Reidemeister moves needed for unknotting", Journal of the American Mathematical Society, 14 (2): 399–428, arXiv:math/9807012, doi:10.1090/S0894-0347-01-00358-7, MR 1815217, S2CID 15654705.
For an arbitrary number of n points, ⁠ t 3 orchard ( n ) {\displaystyle t_{3}^{\text{orchard}}(n)} ⁠ was shown to be 1 6 n 2 − O ( n ) {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{6}}n^{2}-O(n)} in 1974.
The difference between the actual layout and the graph schematic is a good example of the idea that topology is not concerned with the rigid shape of objects.
Suppose the number of points in X {\displaystyle X} with period n {\displaystyle n} is finite for every n ≥ 1 {\displaystyle n\geq 1} .
(1992), "Balance theorems for height-2 posets", Order, 9 (1): 43–53, doi:10.1007/BF00419038, S2CID 16157076.
Theorem For every relational vocabulary τ with at least one binary relation symbol, it is undecidable whether a sentence φ of vocabulary τ is finitely satisfiable.
{\displaystyle x+y=const.} on these diagonal lines) spaced 4 liters apart, both horizontally and vertically.
Since the difference in area is always 1 area unit the optical illusion can be improved using larger Fibonacci numbers allowing gap's percentage of the rectangle area to become arbitrarily small and hence for practical purposes invisible.
The limit of a sequence of amenable groups (that is, an initially subamenable group) is necessarily sofic, but there exist sofic groups that are not initially subamenable groups.
In 1965, Jean-Pierre Sydler showed that two polyhedra are scissors-congruent if and only if they have the same volume and the same Dehn invariant.
But they are also of interest in other biological areas, including bacteria, viruses, microtubules, and the notochord of the zebra fish.
In it you have the same figure of four pieces assembled into a rectangle, however the dissected shape from which the four pieces originate is not a square yet nor are the involved line segments based on Fibonacci numbers.
The affirmative answer to this general question was given in 1957 by Vladimir Arnold, then only nineteen years old and a student of Andrey Kolmogorov.
In 1912 he gave an algorithm that solves both the word and conjugacy problem for the fundamental groups of closed orientable two-dimensional manifolds of genus greater than or equal to 2.
(In some regions points are mapped to themselves, in others they are mapped using the mapping described in the previous paragraph.) Likewise we can make a mapping from the big figure to all the B points in it.
Weiss, Benjamin (2000), "Sofic groups and dynamical systems" (PDF), Sankhyā, Series A, 62 (3): 350–359, MR 1803462, Zbl 1148.37302.
In mathematics, a toy theorem is a simplified instance (special case) of a more general theorem, which can be useful in providing a handy representation of the general theorem, or a framework for proving the general theorem.
In game theory, the Waldegrave problem is a problem first described in the second edition of Pierre Raymond de Montmort`s Essay d'analyse sur les jeux de hazard, which is the first discussion of a mixed strategy to derive a solution in game theory.
Moreover, if there is a morphism f : A → B {\displaystyle f:A\rightarrow B} in E {\displaystyle \mathbf {E} } then there is a functor f ∗ : E / B → E / A {\displaystyle f^{*}:\mathbf {E} /B\rightarrow \mathbf {E} /A} which preserves exponentials and the subobject classifier.
Hooper published the paradox now named after him under the name The geometric money in his book Rational Recreations.
Painter's paradox Since the horn has finite volume but infinite surface area, there is an apparent paradox that the horn could be filled with a finite quantity of paint and yet that paint would not be sufficient to coat its surface.
Since finite matter could not comprehend the infinite, Pardies argued, the fact that humans could comprehend this proof showed that humans must be more than matter, and have immaterial souls.
Examples of this type include the Erdős–Heilbronn Conjecture (for a restricted sumset) and the Cauchy–Davenport Theorem.
Restricted variants and related problems Planar circuit SAT Assume that we are given a planar Boolean circuit (i.e.
In mathematics, the Bing–Borsuk conjecture states that every n {\displaystyle n} -dimensional homogeneous absolute neighborhood retract space is a topological manifold.
If this is not possible, it places i {\displaystyle i} on top of an already placed item and does not split the sub-strip.
It states that if a group G has cohomological dimension 2, then it has a 2-dimensional Eilenberg–MacLane space K ( G , 1 ) {\displaystyle K(G,1)} .
Heine's theorem, named after the German mathematician Eduard Heine, establishes a link in mathematical analysis between limits of functions and limits of sequences.
This result was conjectured in 1950 by Paul Erdős and proved soon thereafter by Leon Mirsky and Donald J.
In model theory, Tarski's exponential function problem asks whether the theory of the real numbers together with the exponential function is decidable.
{\displaystyle {\frac {\overline {AB}}{\overline {P_{2}B}}}={\frac {\sin \alpha _{2}}{\sin \phi }},\qquad {\frac {\overline {P_{2}B}}{\overline {P_{1}P_{2}}}}={\frac {\sin \beta _{1}}{\sin \delta }}.} Combining these, we get A B ¯ P 1 P 2 ¯ = sin ⁡ α 2 sin ⁡ β 1 sin ⁡ ϕ sin ⁡ δ .
All positions on the eye-level line except the point of tangency are outside of the circle, and therefore the angle subtended by the painting from those points is smaller.
In 1997, Mladen Bestvina and Noel Brady constructed a group G so that either G is a counterexample to the Eilenberg–Ganea conjecture, or there must be a counterexample to the Whitehead conjecture; in other words, it is not possible for both conjectures to be true.
P means that there are several identical machines running in parallel; sizej means that each job has a size parameter; Cmax means that the goal is to minimize the maximum completion time.
Subsequent work has strongly borne out the connection between the distribution of the zeros of the Riemann zeta function and the eigenvalues of a random Hermitian matrix drawn from the Gaussian unitary ensemble, and both are now believed to obey the same statistics.
The authors used an aperiodic tiling of quantum Turing machines and showed that this hypothetical material becomes gapped if and only if the machine halts.
Any solution to Znám's problem is also a solution to the improper Znám problem, but not necessarily vice versa.
The Banach–Tarski Paradox is a book in mathematics on the Banach–Tarski paradox, the fact that a unit ball can be partitioned into a finite number of subsets and reassembled to form two unit balls.
In geometry, sphere packing in a cube is a three-dimensional sphere packing problem with the objective of packing spheres inside a cube.
Partial solutions to the Skolem problem are known, covering the special case of the problem for recurrences of degree at most four.
This paradox shows that there is no finitely additive measure on a sphere defined on all subsets which is equal on congruent pieces.
Method 2 is the only one that is both scale invariant and translation invariant; method 3 is just scale invariant, method 1 is neither.
Rectilinear crossing numbers If edges are required to be drawn as straight line segments, rather than arbitrary curves, then some graphs need more crossings than they would when drawn with curved edges.
The Hamiltonian is H ( N , Z ) := ∑ i = 1 N ( − Δ i − Z | x i | ) + ∑ i < j 1 | x i − x j | {\displaystyle H(N,Z):=\sum _{i=1}^{N}(-\Delta _{i}-{\frac {Z}{|x_{i}|}})+\sum _{i<j}{\frac {1}{|x_{i}-x_{j}|}}} .
The order ⪯ B {\displaystyle \preceq _{B}} is not a complete one, and most experiments cannot be ranked by it.
No permutation will convert the two solutions into each other, because suits and face values are different.
Kadison, Singer, and most later authors believed the statement to be false, but, in 2013, it was proven true by Adam Marcus, Daniel Spielman and Nikhil Srivastava, who received the 2014 Pólya Prize for the achievement.
Finally, let D : Θ ⇉ X {\displaystyle D:\Theta \rightrightarrows X} be defined by D ( θ ) = { x ∈ X : f ( x , θ ) = f ∗ ( θ ) } {\textstyle D(\theta )=\{x\in X:f(x,\theta )=f^{*}(\theta )\}} .
Therefore, vertex enumeration methods can be used to list all of the extreme rays and test whether any of them corresponds to a bounding disk of the knot.
All teams start and end at their own home city, and the goal is to minimize the total travel distance for every team over the course of the whole season.
It is known that 11 unit squares cannot be packed in a square of side length less than 2 + 4 5 ≈ 3.789 {\displaystyle \textstyle 2+{\frac {4}{\sqrt {5}}}\approx 3.789} .
Square packing is a packing problem where the objective is to determine how many congruent squares can be packed into some larger shape, often a square or circle.
Several problems of tiling and packing tripods and related shapes were formulated in 1967 by Sherman K.
Goldberg also conjectured that for numbers of spheres of the form k = ⌈ p 3 / 2 ⌉ {\displaystyle k=\lceil p^{3}/2\rceil } , the optimal packing of spheres in a cube is a form of cubic close-packing.
Has proofs of Lagrange's theorem, the polygonal number theorem, Hilbert's proof of Waring's conjecture and the Hardy–Littlewood proof of the asymptotic formula for the number of ways to represent N as the sum of s kth powers.
Cutting a polyhedron typically also introduces new edges and angles; their contributions must cancel out.
Upper bounds The Kővári–Sós–Turán theorem provides an upper bound on the solution to the Zarankiewicz problem.
The isomorphism problem was formulated by Max Dehn, and together with the word problem and conjugacy problem, is one of three fundamental decision problems in group theory he identified in 1911.
The coordination number of HCP and FCC is 12 and their atomic packing factors (APFs) are equal to the number mentioned above, 0.74.
{\displaystyle V_{k}(\pi _{k}(K))\leq V_{k}(\pi _{k}(L)){\mbox{ for all }}1\leq k<n\implies V_{n}(K)\leq V_{n}(L).} Vk(πk(K)) is sometimes known as the brightness of K and the function Vk o πk as a (k-dimensional) brightness function.
Is OCA (the open coloring axiom) consistent with 2 ℵ 0 > ℵ 2 {\displaystyle 2^{\aleph _{0}}>\aleph _{2}} ?
Let p be the nth decimal of the nth real number defined by the set E; we form a number N having zero for the integral part and p + 1 for the nth decimal if p is not equal either to 8 or 9, and unity if p is equal to 8 or 9.
If a counterexample exists, that is, a graph Km,n requiring fewer crossings than the Zarankiewicz bound, then in the smallest counterexample both m and n must be odd.
This leads to the concept of polycycles—cyclically ordered sets of singular points connected by phase curve arcs—and their cyclicity, which measures the number of limit cycles born in bifurcations.
Similar puzzles The missing square puzzle is an optical illusion used in mathematics classes to help students reason about geometrical figures; or rather to teach them not to reason using figures, but to use only textual descriptions and the axioms of geometry.
Origin The problem derives from "A Country House Visit", one of Jan Struther's newspaper articles appearing in the Times of London between 1937 and 1939 featuring her character Mrs.
The same result is true for recursively enumerable theories that can describe a strong enough fragment of arithmetic—including set theories such as Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (ZF).
Some long strings can be described exactly using fewer symbols than those required by their full representation, as is often achieved using data compression.
In Riemannian geometry, a branch of mathematics, the prescribed scalar curvature problem is as follows: given a closed, smooth manifold M and a smooth, real-valued function ƒ on M, construct a Riemannian metric on M whose scalar curvature equals ƒ.
In 1970, a geometric coloring problem equivalent to the Mirsky–Newman theorem was given in the Soviet mathematical olympiad: suppose that the vertices of a regular polygon are colored in such a way that every color class itself forms the vertices of a regular polygon.
If it is assumed that each of the matchboxes originally contained N {\displaystyle N} matches, what is the probability that there are exactly k {\displaystyle k} matches in the other box?
The name refers to the Christian idea that the archangel Gabriel will one day blow his horn to announce Judgment Day.
However, in Hilbert's Grand Hotel, the quantity of odd-numbered rooms is not smaller than the total "number" of rooms.
For every action she takes, her expected utility is ∑ ω ∈ Ω u ( a , ω ) p ( ω ) {\displaystyle \sum _{\omega \in \Omega }u(a,\omega )p(\omega )} Given such prior p {\displaystyle p} , she chooses an action a ∈ A {\displaystyle a\in A} to maximize her expected utility.
There exists a proof using tools from general topology such as the Arkhangel'skii–Frolík covering theorem and the Kuratowski and Ryll-Nardzewski measurable selection theorem.
In particular, if X {\displaystyle X} is a metric space, sequential continuity and continuity are equivalent.
Hilbert's distance (see fig.) is defined by d U ( p , q ) = 1 2 ln ⁡ ‖ q − q 1 ‖ E ‖ q − p 1 ‖ E × ‖ p − p 1 ‖ E ‖ p − q 1 ‖ E .
Known as word problems, they are used in mathematics education to teach students to connect real-world situations to the abstract language of mathematics.
This sort of tour of a chessboard also forms the basis of a type of puzzle called Numbrix, which asks for a tour in which the positions of certain squares match given clues.
In geometric probability, the problem of Buffon's noodle is a variation on the well-known problem of Buffon's needle, named after Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon who lived in the 18th century.
In Barrow's own words "the infinite diminution of one dimension compensates for the infinite increase of the other", in the case of the acute hyperbolic solid by the equation of the Apollonian hyperbola x y = 1 {\textstyle xy=1} .
The puzzle features a new character, Denise, whose birth date the three original characters aim to determine.
Relations to other classes ALL contains all of the complex classes of decision problems, including RE and co-RE, and uncountably many languages that are neither RE nor co-RE.
In mathematical logic, the Scott–Curry theorem is a result in lambda calculus stating that if two non-empty sets of lambda terms A and B are closed under beta-convertibility then they are recursively inseparable.
{\displaystyle \sum _{n=1}^{\infty }{\frac {1}{n^{2}}}={\frac {1}{1^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{2^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{3^{2}}}+\cdots .} The sum of the series is approximately equal to 1.644934.
For any ring R, the Jacobson radical of R[x] consists of the polynomials with coefficients from the upper nilradical of R.
Mourant, in 1965, proved that commuting functions on the unit interval have a common fixed point if one of the functions has no period 2 points (i.e., f ( f ( x ) ) = x {\displaystyle f(f(x))=x} implies f ( x ) = x {\displaystyle f(x)=x} ).
The blue path is one step shorter than the path for the two-jug puzzle with tap and drain, as we can accumulate 4 L in the 8 L jug, absent in the two-jug variant.
{\displaystyle \phi +\psi =\beta _{1}+\beta _{2}.} A second equation can be found more laboriously, as follows.
As a polynomial in X, φn has coefficients that are polynomials over Q {\displaystyle \mathbb {Q} } in j(τ).
Gleason, Montgomery and Zippin characterized Lie groups amongst locally compact groups, as those having no small subgroups.
Further, we should determine whether the occasional condensation of prime numbers which has been noticed in counting primes is really due to those terms of Riemann's formula which depend upon the first complex zeros of the function ζ ( s ) {\textstyle \zeta (s)} .
If true, it would have established the Yau's conjecture for the minimal hypersurface whose second fundamental form has constant length.
For example, if one jug that holds 8 liters is empty and the other jug that hold 12 liters has 9 liters of water in it to begin with, then with a source (tap) and a drain (sink), these two jugs can measure volumes of 9 liters, 5 liters, 1 liter, as well as 12 liters, 8 liters, 4 liters and 0 liters.
Standard example The standard puzzle of this kind works with three jugs of capacity 8, 5 and 3 liters.
A 2010 article by Valeriy Churkin gives a new proof of the continuous version of the Banach–Tarski paradox.
Solutions Since, given the diagonal lemma, every sufficiently strong theory will have to accept something like (H), absurdity can only be avoided either by rejecting the principle of naive reference (R) or by rejecting classical logic (which validates the reasoning from (R) and (H) to absurdity).
The Hartmanis–Stearns conjecture states that if x {\displaystyle x} is a real number whose expansion in some base b ≥ 2 {\displaystyle b\geq 2} (e.g., the decimal expansion for b = 10 {\displaystyle b=10} ) is real-time computable, then x {\displaystyle x} is rational or transcendental.
The sentence φM states that (i) <, min, Ti's and Hq's are interpreted as above and (ii) that the machine eventually halts.
However, the blue triangle has a ratio of 5:2 (=2.5), while the red triangle has the ratio 8:3 (≈2.667), so the apparent combined hypotenuse in each figure is actually bent.
The Köthe conjecture has been shown to be true for various classes of rings, such as polynomial identity rings and right Noetherian rings, but a general solution remains elusive.
In the same year, Crane showed that K < 4 − 2.263 d {\displaystyle K<4-{\frac {2.263}{\sqrt {d}}}} for d ≥ 8 {\displaystyle d\geq 8} .
The problem has, however, also been extended to even values of n {\displaystyle n} by asking, for those n {\displaystyle n} , whether all of the edges of the complete graph except for a perfect matching can be covered by copies of the given 2-regular graph.
The problem is historically related to Hilbert's sixteenth problem and was first formulated by Russian mathematicians Vladimir Arnold and Yulij Ilyashenko in the 1980s.
A sensible strategy would certainly be to swap when the first envelope contains 1, as the other must then contain 2.
(This Banach measure, however, is only finitely additive, so it is not a measure in the full sense, but it equals the Lebesgue measure on sets for which the latter exists.) This implies that if two open subsets of the plane (or the real line) are equi-decomposable then they have equal area.
Such a three dimensions polyhedron was found by Karl Reinhardt in his 1928 booklet titled Zur Zerlegung der euklidischen Räume in kongruente Polytope.
The Riemann hypothesis is that all nontrivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function have a real part of ⁠1/2⁠.
(Thus for example a corner cell of a 3×3 square has a distance of 2 , {\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}},} a non-corner edge cell has a distance of 1, and the center cell has a distance of 0.) Then all magic squares of a given order have the same moment of inertia as each other.
For example, there cannot be a general algorithm that decides whether a given statement about natural numbers is true or false.
Hence, the counterexample to CLP had been known for nearly ten years, it is just that nobody knew why it worked!
By exploiting the provided algebraic symmetries in ideal lattices, one can convert a short nonzero vector into n {\displaystyle n} linearly independent ones of (nearly) the same length.
History The questions appeared following Thurston's announcement of the geometrization conjecture, which proposed that all compact 3-manifolds could be decomposed into geometric pieces.
Let N {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} } be a set of natural numbers (positive integers) that is, the numbers 1 , 2 , 3 , … {\displaystyle 1,2,3,\dots } .
W2 (transformation law of the field) The fields are covariant under the action of Poincaré group, and they transform according to some representation S of the Lorentz group, or SL(2,C) if the spin is not integer: U ( a , L ) † A ( x ) U ( a , L ) = S ( L ) A ( L − 1 ( x − a ) ) .
Physical applications Physical soap films are more accurately modeled by the ( M , 0 , Δ ) {\displaystyle (M,0,\Delta )} -minimal sets of Frederick Almgren, but the lack of a compactness theorem makes it difficult to prove the existence of an area minimizer.
For example, the affirmative answer for spherical Bernstein problem when n = 3 is equivalent to the fact that the local topology at an isolated singular point of any minimal hypersurface in an arbitrary Riemannian 4-manifold must be different from that of a disc.
Let c R ( x ) = | { y ∣ R ( x , y ) } | {\textstyle c_{R}(x)=\vert \{y\mid R(x,y)\}\vert \,} be the counting function.
The unknotting problem has the same computational complexity as testing whether an embedding of an undirected graph in Euclidean space is linkless.
Essentially, this method begins with a model of ZF in which CH holds and constructs another model which contains more sets than the original in a way that CH does not hold in the new model.
In queueing theory, a discipline within the mathematical theory of probability, an M/G/k queue is a queue model where arrivals are Markovian (modulated by a Poisson process), service times have a general distribution and there are k servers.
However, it has been shown that in reality this is impossible and the number of blocks that we can move to the right, due to block stress, is not more than a specified number.
While we usually assume that in the starting configuration all but finitely many cells on the tape are blanks, in the mortality problem the tape can have arbitrary content, including infinitely many non-blank symbols written on it.
It would seem at first glance that the more they overlapped the better the relationship; but this is not so.
Historical context Girard's 1972 inconsistency result clarified that a sufficiently strong "type of all types" principle is incompatible with consistency.
Ball (1988) pointed out a particularly simple counterexample: all sections of the unit volume cube have measure at most √2, while in dimensions at least 10 all central sections of the unit volume ball have measure at least √2.
(1962), "On a quasi-ordering in the class of continuous mappings of a closed interval into itself", Colloquium Mathematicum, 9 (2): 233–240, doi:10.4064/cm-9-2-233-240, MR 0143181.
Some important corollaries of this are: Cantor's theorem Cantor's diagonal argument Diagonal lemma Russell's paradox Gödel's first incompleteness theorem Tarski's undefinability theorem Turing's proof Löb's paradox Roger's fixed-point theorem Rice's theorem == References ==
It entails proving whether a solution exists for all 7th-degree equations using algebraic (variant: continuous) functions of two arguments.
From a constructivist viewpoint, such approaches are not viable as it leads to mathematics losing its concrete applicability, while the opposing viewpoint is that abstract methods are far-reaching, in a way that numerical analysis cannot be.
A Hamiltonian with a spectral gap is called a gapped Hamiltonian, and those that do not are called gapless.
Solution The first major result was that of John von Neumann in 1933, giving an affirmative answer for compact groups.
This means that the 100 kg of potatoes contains 1 kg of dry mass, which does not change, as only the water evaporates.
Kurosh asked whether there can be a finitely-generated infinite-dimensional algebraic algebra (the problem being to show this cannot happen).
Post correspondence problem: Given a list of pairs of strings, determine if there is a selection from these pairs (allowing repeats) such that the concatenation of the first items (of the pairs) is equal to the concatenation of the second items.
Combining this with fact that number of zeros with such imaginary part is O ( T log ⁡ T ) {\displaystyle O(T\log T)} and taking T tending to infinity, it gives that almost all of zeros lie arbitary close to critical line.
Now, we assume that the values of x , θ {\displaystyle x,\theta } are randomly determined when they land, where 0 < x < D 2 {\displaystyle 0<x<{\frac {D}{2}}} , since 0 < ℓ < D {\displaystyle 0<\ell <D} , and 0 < θ < π 2 {\displaystyle 0<\theta <{\frac {\pi }{2}}} .
He shows that the problem is not just undecidable, but Π 2 0 {\displaystyle \Pi _{2}^{0}} -complete.
In computer science, the matrix mortality problem (or mortal matrix problem) is a decision problem that asks, given a set of size m of n×n matrices with integer coefficients, whether the zero matrix can be expressed as a finite product of matrices from this set.
Plünnecke–Ruzsa inequality A useful theorem in additive combinatorics is Plünnecke–Ruzsa inequality.
Here, "quickly" means an algorithm exists that solves the task and runs in polynomial time (as opposed to, say, exponential time), meaning the task completion time is bounded above by a polynomial function on the size of the input to the algorithm.
Since, in general, the number of machines appears only in logarithmic in the size of the instance, this algorithm is a pseudo-polynomial time approximation scheme as well.
See also Girard's paradox Pure type system Lambda cube Universe (type theory) Martin-Löf type theory Burali-Forti paradox References Further reading Barendregt, Henk (1992).
Due primarily to the work of Jerry Kazdan and Frank Wilson Warner in the 1970s, this problem is well understood.
Consequences for some formal logic In the 1930s, Curry's paradox and the related Kleene–Rosser paradox, from which Curry's paradox was developed, played a major role in showing that various formal logic systems allowing self-recursive expressions are inconsistent.
From this viewpoint, Richard's paradox results from treating a construction of the metatheory (the enumeration of all statements in the original system that define real numbers) as if that construction could be performed in the original system.
Further applications Matiyasevich's theorem has since been used to prove that many problems from calculus and differential equations are unsolvable.
Macintyre & Wilkie (1996) showed that Schanuel's conjecture implies such a procedure exists, and hence gave a conditional solution to Tarski's problem.
Tossing a needle 3,408 times, he obtained the well-known approximation ⁠355/113⁠ for π, accurate to six decimal places.
As each edge has a weight of one, the weight of the resulting cycle cover is equal to that of the original cycle cover.
These matters were brought up by Aleksandr Gennadievich Kurosh as analogues of the Burnside problem in group theory.
Even for three blocks, stacking two counterbalanced blocks on top of another block can give an overhang of 1, while the overhang in the simple ideal case is at most ⁠11/12⁠.
In contrast, the mortality problem for Turing machines asks whether all executions of the machine, starting from any configuration, halt.
The first such was given in 1959 using a factor to adjust the mean waiting time in an M/M/c queue This result is sometimes known as Kingman's law of congestion.
Since E(Xk) = P(Xk = 1) = 1/(n − k + 1), the sought expected value is 1/n + 1/(n − 1) + 1/(n − 2) + ...
In cryptography, the dining cryptographers problem studies how to perform a secure multi-party computation of the boolean-XOR function.
Mathematical formulation This presentation is from Hamilton's principle As in Lagrangian mechanics, we consider a system with n {\displaystyle n} degrees of freedom.
(1976), "Problem 15: rigorous foundation of Schubert's enumerative calculus", Mathematical developments arising from Hilbert problems (Proc.
The failure of the staircase curves to converge to the correct length can be explained by the fact that some of their vertices do not lie on the diagonal.
Their methods were quite different; Radó's work built on the previous work of René Garnier and held only for rectifiable simple closed curves, whereas Douglas used completely new ideas with his result holding for an arbitrary simple closed curve.
One card is red on both sides, one is white on both sides, and one is white on one side and red on the other.
In mathematics, engineering, computer science and economics, an optimization problem is the problem of finding the best solution from all feasible solutions.
Therefore, assuming (as most complexity theorists do) some NP problems don't have efficient algorithms, proofs of independence with those techniques are impossible.
{\displaystyle {\frac {\sin x}{x}}=1-{\frac {x^{2}}{3!}}+{\frac {x^{4}}{5!}}-{\frac {x^{6}}{7!}}+\cdots .} The Weierstrass factorization theorem shows that the right-hand side is the product of linear factors given by its roots, just as for finite polynomials.
It states: There is no set whose cardinality is strictly between that of the integers and the real numbers.
Place the residual items in I {\displaystyle {\mathcal {I}}} into the new target area using one of the procedures.
Huneke's solution is based on the mountain climbing problem, which states that two climbers, climbing separate mountains of equal height, will be able to climb in such a way that they will always be at the same elevation at each point in time.
The extra rule ( △ , ∗ ) {\displaystyle (\triangle ,\ast )} (present only in System U) additionally allows types (and hence terms) to depend on higher-level objects; System U− omits this particular form of dependency.
Smale composed this list in reply to a request from Vladimir Arnold, then vice-president of the International Mathematical Union, who asked several mathematicians to propose a list of problems for the 21st century.
More precisely, they showed that the existence of a counterexample generated by ℵ 1 {\displaystyle \aleph _{1}} elements is independent of the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory and the axiom of choice ( Z F C {\displaystyle {\mathsf {ZFC}}} ).
For example, the statement that the sine function is continuous everywhere, or any theorem written in big O notation, can be considered as theorems which are existential by nature—since the quantification can be found in the definitions of the concepts used.
The final resolution, at least in the interpretation of what Hilbert meant given above, came with the work of Andrew Gleason, Deane Montgomery and Leo Zippin in the 1950s.
The reverse assumption X ∉ C {\displaystyle X\notin C} gives X = G ( X ′ ) = a {\displaystyle X=G(X')=a} so X ∈ C {\displaystyle X\in C} .
Formulation of the problem A modern formulation of the problem (in its simplest interpretation) is as follows: An equivalent formulation of this problem closer to that of Hilbert, in terms of composition laws, goes as follows: In this form the problem was solved by Montgomery–Zippin and Gleason.
The study of the numeraire portfolio links SPT to the so-called Benchmark approach to Mathematical Finance, which takes such a numeraire portfolio as given and provides a way to price contingent claims, without any further assumptions.
In mathematics, especially in topology, a topological group G {\displaystyle G} is said to have no small subgroup if there exists a neighborhood U {\displaystyle U} of the identity that contains no nontrivial subgroup of G .
The pill jar puzzle is a probability puzzle, which asks the expected value of the number of half-pills remaining when the last whole pill is popped from a jar initially containing n whole pills and the way to proceed is by removing a pill from the bottle at random.
His argument does not eliminate the possibility of strictly finitistic proofs that cannot be represented within arithmetic.
The number of solutions for small values of k {\displaystyle k} , starting with k = 5 {\displaystyle k=5} , forms the sequence: 2, 5, 18, 96 (sequence A075441 in the OEIS).
This means that half of all positions are unsolvable, although it says nothing about the remaining half.
Computational complexity The computational complexity of the problem is a subject of research in computer science.
More generally, the numbers of foldings with this definition are 1, 1, 2, 5, 14, 38, 120, 353, 1148, 3527, 11622, 36627, 121622, 389560, 1301140, 4215748, ...
(Again, certain individual grammars have RE-complete membership problems.) The validity problem for first-order logic.
The algorithm then runs for n {\displaystyle n} rounds, and at each round i {\displaystyle i} receives an n {\displaystyle n} -dimensional Boolean vector v i {\displaystyle v_{i}} and must return the product M v i {\displaystyle Mv_{i}} (before continuing to round i + 1 {\displaystyle i+1} ).
Upper and lower bounds Since no two lines may share two distinct points, a trivial upper-bound for the number of 3-point lines determined by n points is ⌊ ( n 2 ) / ( 3 2 ) ⌋ = ⌊ n 2 − n 6 ⌋ .
For example, Tarski found an algorithm that can decide the truth of any statement in analytic geometry (more precisely, he proved that the theory of real closed fields is decidable).
Regarded as set-valued set functions, the 14 closure-complement operations comprise an operator monoid called the Kuratowski monoid where the monoid product is function composition.
As of 2014, it is open whether the recognition problem is decidable for the 4-dimensional sphere S 4 {\displaystyle S^{4}} .
In view of the fundamental importance of Poincaré's formulation of the question it seems to me that an elucidation and resolution of this difficulty is extremely desirable.
This allowed to obtain similar results for prime ideals in rings of integers as for usual primes with current knowledge about Riemann zeta function.
"This" and "that" if they are considered differentiae, are of a special kind that map the species human not onto a new species but onto particular humans.
In the sixth century, Boethius composed the first known Latin translation of the Prior Analytics, however, this translation has not survived, and the Prior Analytics may have been unavailable in Western Europe until the eleventh century, when it was quoted from by Bernard of Utrecht.
Many mathematical theorems rely on classical rules of inference such as disjunctive syllogism and the double negation elimination.
Vatsyayana quotes this case to warn people of the danger arising from some old customs of striking women when under the influence of sexual passion.
There are scholars who note that Aristotle's thought on the subject can be distinguished in two levels: ontological (where predicates pertain to things); and, logical (where predicates are something that is said of things).
He aimed to establish clear boundaries for each concept, which he believed was essential for maintaining logical consistency and clarity in philosophical discourse.
This typically takes the following form: Chapter 4 Dignāga offers examples of how inferences are to be used and how to select relevant examples.
Here, Dignāga first eliminates authority as a separate valid means of knowledge, stating that it is a kind of inference.
He then ordained the first seven Tibetan Buddhist monastics there with the aid of twelve Indian monks (circa 779).
They held that some propositions are categorically true (e.g., the Four Noble Truths), while others are avyakata (indeterminate) but not both true and false.
However, the Sautrāntikas did not reject the Abhidharma method; in fact, they were themselves the authors of several Abhidharma manuals, such as the Abhidharmahṛdaya.
Vasubandhu also answers several common objections to the Buddhist not-self view such as how karma works without a Self and what exactly undergoes rebirth.
Although Suhravardi was first a pioneer of Peripatetic philosophy, he later became a Platonist following a mystical experience.
In other words, the debater here tries to ensure victory simply by refuting the thesis put forward by the other side.
Therefore, the claim is already presupposed by the premises, and is no more "supported" than are the assumptions upon which the claim rests, i.e.
Basically, the case, which Miller calls "tediously familiar", is that all arguments purporting to give valid support for a claim are either circular or question-begging.
He greatly contributed to the development of the philosophy of Anekāntavāda and is therefore called the "Master of Jain logic".
At the Drikung Thil Monastery he studied under Chenga Chokyi Gyalpo, the great patriarch of Drikung Kagyu, and received teachings on numerous topics like Mahamudra and the Six Dharmas of Naropa.
The Novum Organum implied in its title a further reform of Aristotle, and its aphorism viii of Book I made this exact point.
Thus, according to Junjie Chu:If we do not assume that there are two philosophers who bear the same name, we have to consider the possibility that Jitāri articulates his different philosophical positions in his two works.
One report of the Stoic definitions of these passions appears in the treatise On Passions by Chrysippus (trans.
Stabaka 4 The major portion of this Stabaka is devoted to the refutation of the Mimamsaka theory that valid cognition must be of an object not previously cognised.
Philosophy of religion In Analytic Philosophy of Religion, James Franklin Harris noted that: ...analytic philosophy has been a very heterogeneous 'movement'....
Since logical matrices are certain abstract algebras, this led to the use of an algebraic method in logic." Brady (2000) discusses the rich historical connections between algebraic logic and model theory.
In the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā, Nāgārjuna sought to refute these essentialist ideas found in Buddhist traditions such as Vaibhasika and Pudgalavada, as well as in Brahmanical schools of thought like Nyaya who also defended an essence based metaphysics.
Boolos argued that if one reads the second-order variables in monadic second-order logic plurally, then second-order logic can be interpreted as having no ontological commitment to entities other than those over which the first-order variables range.
Where 'a horse' or 'a white horse' appears in this translation, the original is equally consistent with a plural or generic reading.
There was, for a considerable period of time, a very lively and extensively practiced tradition of formal debates in ancient India.
It is possible, states Johannes Bronkhorst, that "original Buddhism did not deny the existence of the soul [Ātman, Attan]", even though a firm Buddhist tradition has maintained that the Buddha avoided talking about the soul or even denied it existence.
He is far more precise, more careful to define his terms, than were his predecessors; these virtues of his work are responsible for the fact that perhaps half of Navya-Nyaya literature is based either directly on the T.C.
Mahalanobis and probability The Indian statistician and scientist Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis (1893–1972) drew attention to the parallels between the Jaina seven-valued logic and modern theories of probability and fuzzy logic.
The sinologist Herrlee Glessner Creel said, "Throughout Chinese history "the barbarians" have been a constant motif, sometimes minor, sometimes very major indeed.
Language During the first century BCE, in the Gandharan cultural area (consisting of Oddiyana, Gandhara and Bactria, Tokharistan, across the Khyber Pass), the Sthaviras used the Gāndhārī language to write their literature using the Kharosthi script.
Early career On his return to India, Mashriqi was offered the premiership of Alwar, a princely state, by the Maharaja.
*Hetvābhāsamukha (Introduction to Fallacious Reasoning) Nyāya-mukha (Introduction to Logic), Taisho no.
The second volume explains three principles: mind (citta), dhammas, and faculties (indriya), completing the ten Yamaka principles.
Plato's method of definition Diairesis is Plato's later method of definition based on division, developed in the Platonic dialogues Phaedrus, Sophist, Statesman, and Philebus.
Teaching Paramārtha's interest ranged across a wide variety of Buddhist teachings, from Abhidharma, to Yogacara Buddhism, Buddha-nature teaching and Nagarjuna's ethical teachings.
The terminology had some currency at least until the seventeenth century, and Johannes Clauberg's Logica vetus et nova (1654).
It is, as Quine acknowledged, "Procrustean," employing an artificial language of function and argument, quantifier, and bound variable.
Apodictic propositions contrast with assertoric propositions, which merely assert that something is (or is not) true, and with problematic propositions, which assert only the possibility of something's being true.
Dhamma-yamaka – Pairs of Dhammas: wholesome, unwholesome, indeterminate, analyzed in definition, occurrence, and arising.
For example, Joyce's Principles of Logic (1908; 3rd edition 1949), written for use in Catholic seminaries, made no mention of Frege or of Bertrand Russell.
On the other hand, if I say No cup is a table, I don't mean This cup isn't a table or that one isn't a table or ...
Syllogism, being a method of valid logical reasoning, will always be useful in most circumstances, and for general-audience introductions to logic and clear-thinking.
Śāntarakṣita's philosophy remained the main interpretation of Madhyamaka in Tibetan Buddhism from the 8th century until the time of the second dissemination in the eleventh and twelfth centuries when Candrakirti's work began to be translated.
"Apodictic", also spelled "apodeictic" (Ancient Greek: ἀποδεικτικός, "capable of demonstration"), is an adjectival expression from Aristotelean logic that refers to propositions that are demonstrably, necessarily or self-evidently true.
Other Puritan divines who popularized the Ramist philosophy and Covenant Theology were William Perkins, John Preston, and Thomas Hooker.
35): "For the most part, Kaccāna, sentient beings depend on two kinds of belief - belief that 'there is' (things exist) and belief that 'there is not' (things do not exist).
If 'all Cretans are continuous liars' is actually true, then asking a Cretan if they are honest would always elicit the dishonest answer 'yes'.
Therefore, ascribing ideas within the text to the historical Yin Wen should be conducted with caution.
One of the first to do so was Augustin-Louis Cauchy; his somewhat imprecise results were later made completely rigorous by Weierstrass, who advocated building calculus on arithmetic rather than on geometry, which favoured Euler's definition over Leibniz's (see arithmetization of analysis).
blo gros mi zad pas bstan pa) which states that the sutras of definitive meaning are those sutras which teach emptiness (such as the Prajñāpāramitā sutras).
Peirce articulated this clearly in 1870, arguing also that inclusion was a wider concept than equality, and hence a logically simpler one.
Therefore, those who hold the reins of logic while riding the carriage of the two systems [Mādhyamika and Yogācāra], attain the stage of a true Mahāyānist.” Influence Mipham lists Śāntarakṣita's main Indian students as Kamalaśīla, Haribhadra and Dharmamitra.
Solomon Feferman (November 2006), "Turing's Thesis" (PDF), Notices of the AMS, 53 (10) Turing, Alan (1938).
As such, he advocated the use of English words whenever possible instead of foreign ones, as well as vernacular, rather than Latinate, syntax.
A singular term for Aristotle is primary substance, which can only be predicated of itself: (this) "Callias" or (this) "Socrates" are not predicable of any other thing, thus one does not say every Socrates one says every human (De Int.
This is a list of teachers of Nyaya (including Navya-Nyāya), one of the six astika Hindu philosophical systems.
Building upon those data we can reconstruct with some accuracy the astronomical discoveries that were made in Greece between 600 and 350 BC, as well as the theories that were developed in that period regarding the earth, solar and lunar eclipses, the movements of the heavenly bodies, et cetera.
In this context, it is used to move beyond binary decision logics by considering not only two opposing options, but also their combination and their negation.
Laksanamala: This is a short manual giving very clear definitions and the main divisions of the sixteen categories of the Nyaya and the six categories of the Vaisesika system.
Then Vasudeva Sarvabhauma established an academy of Logic at Nadia for teaching Nyaya Shastra there.
The Han Feizi tends to dismiss the Logicians as useless, despite deriving a part of its statecraft from them.
Twardowski also established the Polish Philosophical Society in 1904, the first laboratory of experimental psychology in Poland in 1907, and the journal Ruch Filozoficzny in 1911.
It is also argued that the particular instantiates or participates in the universal; hence, universals may be needed for the predication of relations.
Ernest Nagel (; German: [ˈnaːɡl̩]; November 16, 1901 – September 20, 1985) was an American philosopher of science.
Following Dummett's insightful remarks about Frege, which – mutatis mutandis – apply even more to Church, it might be possible to explain the today-surprising absence.
Career Yin Wen operated as a scholar and politician in his native State of Qi, serving King Xuan of Qi and King Min of Qi, and was seemingly affiliated with Jixia Academy (稷下學宮).
The mind can judge (συγκατάθεσις, synkatathesis)—approve or reject—an impression, enabling it to distinguish a true representation of reality from one that is false.
In 1938, he married Martha Hurst; they had two children, George (born 1942) and Jane (married name Heal); born 1946).
A person acquainted with the true principles of this science, who preserves his Dharma (virtue or religious merit), his Artha (worldly wealth) and his Kama (pleasure or sensual gratification), and who has regard to the customs of the people, is sure to obtain the mastery over his senses.
Many Han Chinese writers did not celebrate the collapse of the Mongols and the return of the Han Chinese rule in the form of the Ming dynasty government at that time.
Dundas further notes that Yashovijaya paints a superior picture of Jainism with his inclusivism and it is this image of Jainism that has become a dominant one today.
In Aristotelian logic, dictum de omni et nullo (Latin: "the maxim of all and none") is the principle that whatever is affirmed or denied of a whole kind K may be affirmed or denied (respectively) of any subkind of K.
The ambiguity of "every girl kissed a boy" is difficult to express in traditional logic, but Frege's logic resolves this through the different scope of the quantifiers.
This is the Commentary on the Mahāyāna Madhyamaka (Dasheng zhongguan shilun 大乘中觀釋論) which comments on the text from a Yogacara point of view.
The first predicate logic was that of Frege's landmark Begriffsschrift (1879), little read before 1950, in part because of its eccentric notation.
Davey Tomlinson describes this as a "compositional identity," giving the example of a statue and a lump of clay: in the same way that the statue is composed of clay, images have luminous awareness as their compositional identity.
For Vasubandhu, to say that something is non-dual is that it is both conceptually non-dual and perceptually non-dual.
He was also the author of a number of papers in philosophical logic, particularly on the nature of truth for natural languages, and the role that linguistic concepts play in the treatment of logical paradoxes.
Śāntarakṣita's main argument here is that any manifold nature or essence would depend on an aggregation of singular essences.
samkhyävisesat: the necessity of a relating cognition, at the time of the origin of the universe, in order to produce the plural number which in turn causes magnitude in the triads.
This effectively became his surname, and descended even to his five daughters, Menexene, Argia, Theognis, Artemesia, and Pantaclea, who were likewise distinguished as dialecticians.
The title may be translated into English as "A Thought-jewel of Truth." The treatise is also known as Pramāṇa-chintāmaṇi ("A Thought-jewel of Valid Knowledge").
Non-inherence (Asamavāya): This category involves relationships that are not direct but still play a crucial role in causal connections, such as the colour of threads contributing to the colour of the cloth.
Prajñakara adopts this theory and argues that because the awareness or knowledge of diverse forms in a single moment of perception cannot be perceived independently or isolated from each other (kevala), variegated acts of perception must always be singular (ekataiva) (PVA.289,26-27).
This phrase also means a dilemma or difficult circumstance from which there is no escape because of mutually conflicting or dependent conditions.
Matilal secured a Fulbright fellowship and completed his PhD under Ingalls on the Navya-Nyāya doctrine of negation, between 1962 and 1965.
Sanjaya Belatthiputta, a 6th century BCE Indian ascetic whose teachings are similar to that of Nagarjuna are compared to that of a "theory of eel-wrigglers" in the famous Samannaphala Sutta (DN 2).
This was the work of Diodorus Cronus and Philo the Dialectician, the only two members of the Dialectical school we have detailed information about.
Our present understanding of Leibniz as a logician stems mainly from the work of Wolfgang Lenzen, summarized in Lenzen (2004).
Thus one of Aristotle's writings is still called the Eudemian Ethics, probably because it was Eudemus who edited (though very lightly) this text.
The term Ātman is synonymous with Tuma, Atuma and Attan in early Buddhist literature, state Rhys David and William Stede, all in the sense of "self, soul".
Neither Robbins nor Huntington could prove this conjecture; nor could Alfred Tarski, who took considerable interest in it later.
Echoes of empty luminosity: Reevaluation and unique interpretation of Yogacara and Nihsvabhavavada Madhyamaka by the fifteenth century Tibetan thinker Sakya mchog ldan, Ph.D.
He spent his entire life on only one and a half katthas of land at Sarisab Pahi village in the Madhubani district of the Mithila region in Bihar, India.
(1999), The Cambridge History of Hellenistic Philosophy, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-25028-5 Armstrong, A.H., ed.
34, "Profound Panegyric to the Lotus Sūtra") Commentary on the Vimalakīrtinirdeśa-sūtra (說無垢稱經疏, Taishō no.
Polish Logic is an anthology of papers by several authors—Kazimierz Ajdukiewicz, Leon Chwistek, Stanislaw Jaskowski, Zbigniew Jordan, Tadeusz Kotarbinski, Stanisław Leśniewski, Jan Łukasiewicz, Jerzy Słupecki, and Mordchaj Wajsberg—published in 1967 and covering the period 1920–1939.
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy's entry on Stoicism notes: "the sense of the English adjective 'stoical' is not utterly misleading with regard to its philosophical origins".
What is sublated, on the one hand, is overcome, but, on the other hand, is preserved and maintained.
Therefore, he (like other Madhyamikas) refuses to assign any ultimate reality to consciousness and sees it as empty of any inherent nature.
4203) and its auto-commentary (Pramāṇasamuccayavṛtti), examined perception, language and inferential reasoning.
Calculus of relations A homogeneous binary relation is found in the power set of X × X for some set X, while a heterogeneous relation is found in the power set of X × Y, where X ≠ Y.
Yin Weizi first argues for the primacy of the Dao, before immediately addressing the philosophy of the Rectification of Names, arguing that names (名) should correspond to reality (形) before quoting Confucius.
Regarding autonomous syllogistic arguments, Tsongkhapa (like Candrakirti) argues that they are not always necessary and that prāsaṅga arguments (i.e.
Scholars Jan Lukasiewicz, Józef Maria Bocheński and Günther Patzig have sided with the Protasis-Apodosis dichotomy while John Corcoran prefers to consider a syllogism as simply a deduction.
In his later years, Shakya Chokden moved away from a strictly Prasangika Madhyamika view (as held by Chandrakirti) and adopted a kind of Shentong (emptiness of other) view influenced by the works of Asanga, Vasubandhu and Maitreya-nātha.
This treatise may have been another work of *Sāramati (the author of the Ratnagotravibhāga according to the Chinese tradition).
His philosophical treatise, the Nyāyavārttika was written to defend Pakṣilasvāmin Vātsyāyana's Nyāyabhāṣya against the criticisms made by Dignaga.
1545) All of these works have been translated into Chinese, and are now part of the Chinese Buddhist canon.
The primary of the Dao is central to the text's model of government, with wu wei being at the forefront.
English merism: parsing or the distinguishing of parts, as opposed to diairesis, which is the division of a genus into its parts).
In the 14th century Je Tsongkhapa presented a new commentary and approach to Madhyamaka, which became the normative form in Tibet.
The antecedent of one premise must match the consequent of the other for the conditional to be valid.
Captain Black asks Milo, "You're not against Catch-22, are you?" In chapter 40, Catch-22 forces Colonels Korn and Cathcart to promote Yossarian to Major and ground him rather than simply sending him home.
Thus, faith in God gives us faith in reason, which in turn "justifies" our belief that God is no deceiver." Richard Popkin sees rational fideism as the opposite of "pure, blind, fideism".
The Madhyamakālaṅkāra, which was almost forgotten by the 19th century, is now studied by all Nyingma shedra students.
Texts and translations Meno, in a collection of Plato's Dialogues at Standard Ebooks Jowett, Benjamin.
"The grass is green" is a proposition (Satz): in this connection of words, something is said or asserted.
Edward Conze connotatively links the term tathagata itself (the designation which the Buddha applied to himself) with the notion of a real, true self: Just as tathata designates true reality in general, so the word which developed into Tathagata designated the true self, the true reality within man.
Tsongkhapa thinks that if we only relied on the ultimate epistemological point of view, we would not be able to distinguish between virtue from non-virtue, or enlightenment from samsara (since ultimate analysis only tells us that they are equally empty).
Some of Euclides' successors developed logic to such an extent that they became a separate school, known as the Dialectical school.
Samantabhadra describes ten aspects of Buddhahood in detail and affirms that Buddhahood is present in every particle in the physical universe, as well as in the body and mind of every living being.
This was a pivotal event in the history of Tibetan Buddhism, which would afterwards continue to follow the late Indian model with only minor influence from China.
Logic Vasubandhu contributed to Buddhist logic and is held to have been the origin of formal logic in the Indian logico-epistemological tradition.
early 9th century), also called ʿAbdishoʿ bar Bahrīz, was a bishop and scholar of the Church of the East, famous for his translations from Syriac into Arabic.
A part of that definition may be singled out (using parentheses here): a square: (a quadrilateral that has interior angles which are all right angles), and that has bounding sides which all have the same length.
Nyayavarttikatatparyaparisuddhi: This is an elaborate commentary on the Nyäyavarttikatätparyatika of Vacaspatimisra.
Commentarial Tradition Concepts in the foundational text, the Nyaya Sutras, were clarified through a tradition of commentaries.
What we see as a result is a close similarity between [these] methods of reasoning and the behaviour of digital computers.
So for example the subject of a negative claim, or indefinite one supposits determinately, but the subject of a singular claim supposits discretely, while the subject of an affirmative claim supposits confusedly and determinately.
Apart from this definition, the procedure also results in a taxonomy of other concepts, ordered according to a general–specific relation.
To simplify the above, in the direct cognition of rigpa or clear light, there is no findable, inherent subject or object.
In his Rhetorical Criticism: A Study in Method, Edwin Black states, "It is the task of criticism not to measure...
His Madhyamaka view is most clearly outlined in his Madhyamakālaṃkāra (The Ornament of the Middle Way) and his own commentary on that text, the Madhyamakālaṃkāravṛtti (The Auto-Commentary on The Ornament of the Middle Way).
Since the ultimate truth is nonduality, Ratnakīrti insists that one should finally cling neither to the acceptance nor denial of other minds in the end.
He is accordingly considered the founder of this school which differed notably from Paramārtha's earlier Chinese Yogācāra system.
the two processes are reversible — (i) generalization from a matrix to a function (by using apparent variables) and (ii) the reverse process of reduction of type by courses-of-values substitution of arguments for the apparent variable.
The text recommends yogic meditation in quiet places such as a forest, cave or sandy beach in sutra 4.2.42, that the knowledge seeker should purify one's soul by Yamas, Niyamas and spiritualism of yoga in sutra 4.2.46.
Third, if a distinction exists between minds, the non-duality of cognition defended by Vijñānavādins would be "refuted by perception grasping a distinction.
The Nyāya Sūtras is an ancient Indian Sanskrit text composed by Akṣapāda Gautama, and the foundational text of the Nyaya school of Hindu philosophy.
The Stranger is much more fond of the former; the latter is only created to produce an appearance of beauty.
This opening was called the holon, meaning "whole", and represented the full set of objects under consideration.
He wrote a book titled al-Asfār al-Arbaʻah meaning 'the four journeys', referring to the soul's journey back to Allah.
Although Eudemus too conducted original research, his forte lay in systematizing Aristotle's philosophical legacy, and in a clever didactical presentation of his teacher's ideas.
and harmonised Shankara's thought with that of Mandana Miśra, who until the 10th century was the most authoritative exponent of Advaita Vedanta.
He brought the new school of Nyaya, Navya Nyāya, representing the final development of Indian formal logic, to its zenith of analytic power.
He was particularly interested in formal logic to fortify his contributions to the traditions of dialectical contestability and debate.
1542, 阿毘達磨品類足論, 尊者世友造, 三藏法師玄奘奉 詔譯, in 18 fascicles; with another partial translation by Gunabhadra and Bodhiyasa: T26, No.
While Descartes doubts the ability of the senses to provide us with accurate information, Bacon doubts the ability of the mind to deduce truths by itself as it is subjected to so many intellectual obfuscations, Bacon's "Idols".
Zeno's ideas developed from those of the Cynics (brought to him by Crates of Thebes), whose founding father, Antisthenes, had been a disciple of Socrates.
For Heraclitus, logos provided the link between rational discourse and the world's rational structure.
Criticism Some of the greatest subsequent Tibetan scholars have become famous for their own works either defending or attacking Tsongkhapa's views.
Inference for Others (Parārthānumāna): This type of inference is presented in a way that can be communicated to others, providing a logical basis for convincing others of a particular conclusion.
Later ancient logicians (including Aristotle) and practitioners of other ancient sciences have employed diairetic modes of classification, e.g., to classify plants in ancient biology.
Aristotle, writing in the fourth century BCE, concluded that this was an infinite sequence, with no true origin.
A medieval street used to run across Logic Lane as an extension of the current Kybald Street to the west, but was closed in 1448.
Alexander Berzin (2006) translates the title into English as A Filigree of the Middle Way (dBu-ma rgyan, Skt.
In the earliest period, the term was used to denote Atma-vidya, the science of the soul, in contrast to Adhyatma-vidya, the spiritual science, or Brahma-vidya, the divine science.
Only A is of the long recension, the rest (including the hypothetical fifth) belong to the short recension.
One can stop at self-evidence or common sense or fundamental principles or speaking ex cathedra or at any other evidence, but in doing so, the intention to install "certain" justification is abandoned.
Some prominent disciples of Vasudeva Sarvabhauma were Raghunath Shiromani, Raghunandana, Krishnandana agamavagisha.
In such a case the capacity is given by the mutual information rate when there is no feedback available and the Directed information rate in the case that either there is feedback or not (if there is no feedback the directed information equals the mutual information).
Peirce's writings do not address this question, because first-order logic was first clearly articulated only after his death, in the 1928 first edition of David Hilbert and Wilhelm Ackermann's Principles of Mathematical Logic.
Since Gentzen's work, natural deduction and sequent calculi have been widely applied in the fields of proof theory, mathematical logic and computer science.
These headings, though often given in a different order, represent the basic arrangement of scholastic works on logic.
The Indian commentary called the Akutobhayā, whose authorship is unknown, though is attributed to Nagarjuna in the tradition, is held by Ames to be the earliest commentary on the MMK.
Appearance and language Appearance Between 148 and 170 CE, the Parthian monk An Shigao came to China and translated a work which described the color of monastic robes (Skt.
Later life Vasudeva Sarvabhauma went to the university of Mithila at the age of 25 for studying Nyaya Shastra there.
This was rejected by Philipp Melanchthon, because it did not ensure justification by faith as a fundamental doctrine.
The existence of a 2-basis was established in 1967 by Carew Arthur Meredith: ¬ ( ¬ x ∨ y ) ∨ x = x , {\displaystyle \neg ({\neg x}\lor y)\lor x=x,} ¬ ( ¬ x ∨ y ) ∨ ( z ∨ y ) = y ∨ ( z ∨ x ) .
The red and the gray sliders represented the two affirmative propositions which were being combined.
Stoic ethics centers on virtue as the highest good, cultivating emotional self-control, a calm problem-solving state of mind, and rational judgment to attain lifelong flourishing (eudaimonia).
However, where the Sākāravādins maintained that the images showing up within cognition are real, since they are not different from the ultimately real consciousness, the Nirākāravādins argued that reality is ultimately free of images, as images are constructed by ignorance and therefore false.
Education Literate in Sanskrit from an early age, Matilal was also drawn towards Mathematics and Logic.
(Whether substance is a highest genus, really, is not in question here: right now we are only going to discuss what the diagram shows, not whether what it shows is true or false.) The technical term for a highest substance is summum genus.
When Vasudeva Sarvabhauma came to know the strict rule of the university, he pledged to memorize the manuscript of the text Tattavachintamani and the metrical portions of the Nyaya Kushmanjali.
Chronicle Books, Delhi 2004) Navya Nyāya Doctrine of Negation, Harvard Oriental Series 46, 1968 Bimal Krishna Matilal (1990).
According to Lama Tsongkhapa's interpretation of Nagarjuna, both causes and effects are merely designated by mind.
In Lin, Chen-kuo, Radich, Michael (eds), A Distant Mirror - Articulating Indic Ideas in Sixth and Seventh Century Chinese Buddhism, Hamburg Buddhist Studies vol.
Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy: Logic in Islamic philosophy, Routledge, 1998 Logic in Islamic philosophyby Deborah L.
The work focuses on the contributions of Polish logicians, more particularly, mathematical logicians, to modern logic.
Library of Congress cataloging data LC Control No.: 67106639 Type of Material: Book (Print, Microform, Electronic, etc.) Personal Name: McCall, Storrs, comp.
More recently, it has been related to mathematical lattice theory in formal concept analysis, and independently formalized similarly by Yu.
The Dhammakaya Movement teaching that nirvana is atta, or true self, was criticized as heretical in Buddhism in 1994 by Ven.
Catuskoti In the 2nd century, the Buddhist philosopher Nagarjuna refined the Catuskoti form of logic.
Theory of Knowledge (Pramana) Udayana's integration of the Nyaya theory of pramanas with the Vaisesika ontology was crucial.
Aristotle's theory on the syllogism for assertoric sentences was considered especially remarkable, with only small systematic changes occurring to the concept over time.
{\displaystyle \neg ({\neg x}\lor y)\lor (z\lor y)=y\lor (z\lor x).} The following year, Meredith found a 2-basis in terms of the Sheffer stroke: ( x ∣ x ) ∣ ( y ∣ x ) = x , {\displaystyle (x\mid x)\mid (y\mid x)=x,} x | ( y ∣ ( x ∣ z ) ) = ( ( z ∣ y ) ∣ y ) ∣ x .
France has Jeannot's knife; Spain uses Jeannot's knife as a proverb, though it is referred to simply as "the family knife"; and Hungary has "Lajos Kossuth's pocket knife".
The text begins with an explanation of the Nyāya belief system, followed by a criticism of inferences that establish an intelligent creator.
Buddhist logic Buddhist logicians such as Dignaga and Dharmakirti criticized the Jaina seven-valued scheme for violating the law of non-contradiction.
Diairesis (Ancient Greek: διαίρεσις, romanized: diaíresis, "division") is a form of classification used in ancient (especially Platonic) logic that serves to systematize concepts and come to definitions.
Explanation and variants The problem of the liar paradox is that it seems to show that common beliefs about truth and falsity actually lead to a contradiction.
To these Bacon attaches an almost occult like power: But he who knows forms grasps the unity of nature beneath the surface of materials which are very unlike.
Pure consciousness However, Paramārtha is most well known for introducing his unique Yogacara doctrine of the "pure consciousness" or "immaculate consciousness" (amalavijñāna, Ch: amoluoshi 阿摩羅識 or wugou shi 無垢識).
While Tsongkhapa emphasizes the importance of attaining the correct conceptual understanding of emptiness through this analytical contemplation, he also understands that this knowledge is not the actual realization of emptiness itself (which is non-conceptual and non-dualistic).
Main Title: Polish logic, 1920-1939 papers by Ajdukiewicz [and others]; Published/Created: Oxford, Clarendon P., 1967.
It is also possible that they may have been made in 1676, when Leibniz discussed analysis by infinite series with Collins and Oldenburg.
After l'Hôpital's death, he publicly revealed their agreement and claimed credit for the statements and portions of the text of Analyse, which were supplied to l'Hôpital in letters.
Pierre Varignon responded by pointing out that Rolle had misrepresented the curve, and that the alleged local minima are in fact singular points with a vertical tangent.
Johann Bernoulli grew increasingly unhappy with the accolades bestowed on l'Hôpital's work and complained in private correspondence about being sidelined.
When l'Hôpital published his book, he gave due credit to Bernoulli and, not wishing to take credit for any of the mathematics in the book, he published the work anonymously.
This application can be generalized to polynomials in n variables, using the Exterior algebra of an n-dimensional vector space.
{\displaystyle A=8B=16r^{2}.} Alternate proof of the volume formula To derive the volume of a bicylinder (white), one can enclose it within a cube (red).
Given his animosity to infinitesimals it is fitting that the result was couched in terms of algebra rather than analysis.
He maintained that the rays that fell perpendicularly on the lens (or glacial humor as he called it) were further refracted outward as they left the glacial humor and the resulting image thus passed upright into the optic nerve at the back of the eye.
Newton concluded Book 2 by commenting that the hypothesis of vortices was completely at odds with the astronomical phenomena, and served not so much to explain as to confuse them.
Collision of bodies The theory of the collision of bodies was propounded by the Royal Society in 1668 for the consideration of mathematicians.
Berkeley's farmhouse in Middletown, Rhode Island, is preserved as Whitehall Museum House, also known as Berkeley House, and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1970.
Infinite series Among his many contributions, he discovered infinite series for the trigonometric functions of sine, cosine, arctangent, and many methods for calculating the circumference of a circle.
The arc is obtained by adding and subtracting respectively the terms of odd rank and those of even rank.
Assessment of his work Together with René Descartes, Fermat was one of the two leading mathematicians of the first half of the 17th century.
He was, however, eulogized by Fontenelle, before the French Academy of Sciences in Paris, which had admitted him as a foreign member in 1700.
In calculus, the method of normals was a technique invented by Descartes for finding normal and tangent lines to curves.
This is an early example of a mechanical curve (a curve traced by a moving point) considered by a Greek mathematician.
Shortly after Robespierre's fall, Carnot was charged for his role during the time but the charges were quickly dismissed when he became a member of the Directory.
The group is known for series expansion of three trigonometric functions of sine, cosine and arctan and proofs of their results where later given in the Yuktibhasa.
The group also did much other work in astronomy: more pages are devoted to astronomical computations than purely mathematical results.
It builds upon the propositions of the previous books and applies them with greater specificity than in Book 1 to the motions observed in the Solar System.
Further, a mathematician's claim could be undermined by counter-claims that he had not truly invented an idea, but merely improved on someone else's idea, an improvement that required little skill, and was based on facts that were already known.
In a quality, or accidental form, such as heat, he distinguished the intensio (the degree of heat at each point) and the extensio (as the length of the heated rod).
An example of a transseries is: e ln ⁡ ln ⁡ x + ln ⁡ ln ⁡ x + ∑ j = 0 ∞ e x x − j , {\displaystyle e^{\sqrt {\ln \ln x}}+\ln \ln x+\sum _{j=0}^{\infty }e^{x}x^{-j},} where for purposes of ordering x is considered infinite.
A few days later, in the absence of Leibniz, Hooke criticized the German scientist's machine, saying that he could make a simpler model.
The next two years alone saw the development of theories on calculus, optics, and the law of gravitation, at his home in Woolsthorpe.
The second full English translation, into modern English, is the work that resulted from this decision by collaborating translators I.
Notations he used for the differential of y ranged successively from ω, l, and ⁠y/d⁠ until he finally settled on dy.
Charles James Hargreave (1848) applied these methods in his memoir on differential equations, and George Boole freely employed them.
On the other hand, other authors have emphasized the equivalences and mutual translatability of the methods: here Niccolò Guicciardini (2003) appears to confirm L'Hôpital (1696) (already cited): the Newtonian and Leibnizian schools shared a common mathematical method.
The proof involves assuming that the true area is greater than the second area, proving that assertion false, assuming it is less than the second area, then proving that assertion false, too.
While Fermat's method had more in common with the infinitesimal techniques that were to be used later, Descartes' method was more influential in the early history of calculus.
However, Thabit Ibn Qurra (AD 901), an Arab mathematician, had produced a generalisation of the Pythagorean theorem applicable to all triangles six centuries earlier.
Proposition 5: The volumes of two tetrahedra of the same height are proportional to the areas of their triangular bases.
{\displaystyle \int M(x)\,dx+\int N(y)\,dy=C.} Rewriting, when possible, a differential equation into this form and applying the above argument is known as the separation of variables technique for solving such equations.
Among his accomplishments were the determination of the arc length of the logarithmic graph, one of the solutions to the brachistochrone problem, and the discovery of a turning point singularity on the involute of a plane curve near an inflection point.
This had some amendments relative to Newton's manuscript of 1685, mostly to remove cross-references that used obsolete numbering to cite the propositions of an early draft of Book 1 of the Principia.
Most of the curriculum consisted of classical languages; the ambitious Cauchy, being a brilliant student, won many prizes in Latin and the humanities.
{\displaystyle {\frac {dx}{dt}}={\dot {x}}.} Lagrange's "prime" notation is especially useful in discussions of derived functions and has the advantage of having a natural way of denoting the value of the derived function at a specific value.
He was criticised by Omar Khayyam who pointed that Aristotle had condemned the use of motion in geometry.
In the history of mathematics, the generality of algebra was a phrase used by Augustin-Louis Cauchy to describe a method of argument that was used in the 18th century by mathematicians such as Leonhard Euler and Joseph-Louis Lagrange, particularly in manipulating infinite series.
Whereas by this Artifice of first dividing, and then changing your Supposition, you retain 1 and nxn-1.
In the 5th century, Zu Chongzhi established a method that would later be called Cavalieri's principle to find the volume of a sphere.
Three hundred years after Leibniz's work, Abraham Robinson showed that using infinitesimal quantities in calculus could be given a solid foundation.
"Shows a thorough mastery of the literature on Berkeley, along with very perceptive remarks about the strength and weaknesses of most of the central commentators.
In geometry, a Steinmetz solid is the solid body obtained as the intersection of two or three cylinders of equal radius at right angles.
Sum theorem In Theorem I in section 6.1 (page 90 in the translation by Bradley and Sandifer), Cauchy presents the sum theorem in the following terms.
He had then already been given a pension by Jean-Baptiste Colbert after he solved one of Jacques Ozanam's problems.
Influence Madhava has been called "the greatest mathematician-astronomer of medieval India", some of his discoveries in this field show him to have possessed extraordinary intuition".
In 1831 Cauchy went to the Italian city of Turin, and after some time there, he accepted an offer from the King of Sardinia (who ruled Turin and the surrounding Piedmont region) for a chair of theoretical physics, which was created especially for him.
Guillaume François Antoine, Marquis de l'Hôpital (French: [ɡijom fʁɑ̃swa ɑ̃twan maʁki də lopital]; 7 June 1661 – 2 February 1704) was a French mathematician.
1820 BC), but the formulas are only given for concrete numbers, some are only approximately true, and they are not derived by deductive reasoning.
Victor Katz suggests this is because Descartes had independently discovered the same new mathematics, known as his method of normals, and Descartes was quite proud of his discovery.
He became one of the five initial members of the Directory but was ousted after the Coup of 18 Fructidor in 1797 and went into exile.
Abd-el-latif, a supporter of Aristotle's philosophical view of place, later criticized the work in Fi al-Radd 'ala Ibn al-Haytham fi al-makan (A refutation of Ibn al-Haytham's place) for its geometrization of place.
For a sketch of the proof, suppose we wish to show that a ( S ) = 1 3 a ( C ) {\textstyle a(S)={\frac {1}{3}}a(C)} .
Similarly, the completeness property cannot be expected to carry over, because the reals are the unique complete ordered field up to isomorphism.
I would shatter Gladly all matters down to stone or lead, Or adamant, to find the world a spirit, And wear my head, denying that I wear it.
This relation then led to an extreme-value solution when Fermat removed his counterfactual assumption and set the roots equal.
In the four rules, as they came finally to stand in the 1726 edition, Newton effectively offers a methodology for handling unknown phenomena in nature and reaching towards explanations for them.
After a meticulous study (informed by the 1999 additions to the Leibniz-Edition) of all of Leibniz's philosophical writings up to 1688, Mercer (2001) disagreed with Couturat's reading.
He approximated partial sums of the harmonic series by logarithms (a precursor to Euler's summation formula) and was the first to use power series with confidence and to revert power series.
Euler describes 18 such genres, with the general definition 2mA, where A is the "exponent" of the genre (i.e.
Together, these laws describe the relationship between any object, the forces acting upon it and the resulting motion, laying the foundation for classical mechanics.
He integrated Leibniz's differential calculus with Newton's Method of Fluxions, and developed tools that made it easier to apply calculus to physical problems.
In 1957, to commemorate the 250th anniversary of his birth, his tomb was moved to the Lazarevskoe Cemetery at the Alexander Nevsky Monastery.
Ewald concludes that Berkeley's objections to the calculus of his day were mostly well taken at the time.
Leithold died of natural causes the week before his class (which he had been "relentlessly drilling" for eight months) was to take the AP exam; his students went on to receive top scores.
Other developments One prerequisite to the establishment of a calculus of functions of a real variable involved finding an antiderivative for the rational function f ( x ) = 1 x .
In 2014, the "Hiding in the Light" episode of Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey, presented by Neil deGrasse Tyson, focused on the accomplishments of Ibn al-Haytham.
The resulting extended number system cannot agree with the reals on all properties that can be expressed by quantification over sets, because the goal is to construct a non-Archimedean system, and the Archimedean principle can be expressed by quantification over sets.
{\displaystyle \left({\frac {r_{1}}{r_{2}}}\right)^{2}a(C_{2})<\left({\frac {r_{1}}{r_{2}}}\right)^{2}a(P_{2})\implies a(C_{2})<a(P_{2}).} However, this is a contradiction, since P 2 ⊂ C 2 {\textstyle P_{2}\subset C_{2}} .
As this difference becomes arbitrarily small, the possible values for the area of the shape are systematically "exhausted" by the lower bound areas successively established by the sequence members.
He is also said to have built a planetarium device that demonstrated the movements of the known celestial bodies, and may have been a precursor to the Antikythera mechanism.
One can conservatively extend any theory including reals, including set theory, to include infinitesimals, just by adding a countably infinite list of axioms that assert that a number is smaller than 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, and so on.
Thomas Reid admitted that he put forward a drastic criticism of Berkeleianism after he had been an admirer of Berkeley's philosophical system for a long time.
For a long time, these claims were not regarded as credible by many historians of mathematics, because l'Hôpital's mathematical talent was not in doubt, while Bernoulli was involved in several other priority disputes.
Plutarch tells a slightly different account, relating that Archimedes boasted to Hiero that he was able to move any large weight, at which point Hiero challenged him to move a ship.
Euler has been called a "universal genius" who "was fully equipped with almost unlimited powers of imagination, intellectual gifts and extraordinary memory".
Nevertheless, he made important contributions to analytical geometry, probability, number theory and calculus.
A letter to the founder of the French Academy of Sciences, Marin Mersenne for a French scientist, or to the secretary of the Royal Society of London, Henry Oldenburg for English, had essentially the status of a published article.
Thus, through the sensing of these ideas, the mind can make inferences as to matter itself, even though pure matter is non-perceivable.
When looking at an embarrassed person, we infer indirectly that the person is embarrassed by observing the red colour on the person's face.
According to a palm leaf manuscript of a Malayalam commentary on the Surya Siddhanta, Parameswara's son Damodara (c.
Scientific work Cosmology In his Livre du ciel et du monde Oresme discussed a range of evidence for and against the daily rotation of the Earth on its axis.
The curator of the experiments of the Society, Robert Hooke, carefully examined the device and even removed the back cover.
This section of Rules for philosophy is followed by a listing of "Phenomena", in which are listed a number of mainly astronomical observations, that Newton used as the basis for inferences later on, as if adopting a consensus set of facts from the astronomers of his time.
(Kudalasangama in Bagalkot district is one such place with a celebrated temple dedicated to the Lord of the Samgama.) There is a small town on the southern banks of the Nila river, around 10 kilometers upstream from Tirunavaya, called Kūḍallūr.
When Newton and Leibniz invented the calculus, they made use of infinitesimals, Newton's fluxions and Leibniz' differential.
From this brief but productive collaboration on the problem of points, they are now regarded as joint founders of probability theory.
In his eulogy for the French Academy, French mathematician and philosopher Marquis de Condorcet wrote: ...
Metaphysical Disputation on the Principle of Individuation), which addressed the principle of individuation, on 9 June 1663 [O.S.
Consider an infinitely small cross-section of the triangle given by the segment HE, where the point H lies on BC, the point E lies on AB, and HE is parallel to the axis of symmetry of the parabola.
These were deprecated in subsequent MS-DOS code pages, but they still remain in Unicode (U+2320 and U+2321 respectively) for compatibility.
Biography Leithold attended the University of California, Berkeley, where is attained his B.A., M.A.
Scholarly controversy Both Newton and Leibniz referred to Fermat's work as an antecedent of infinitesimal calculus.
Oresme defined a uniform quality as that which is represented by a line parallel to the longitude, and any other quality as difform.
Shewing the Original, Progress, and Advancement thereof, from time to time, and by what Steps it hath attained to the Heighth at which it now is.
Borel explicitly linked du Bois-Reymond's work to Cauchy's work on rates of growth of infinitesimals.
Walton's vindication of Sir Isaac Newton's Principle of Fluxions (1735) Reasons for not replying to Mr.
The following presents a summary of results that have been attributed to Madhava by various scholars.
He quarreled so vehemently on the subject that the Académie des Sciences was forced to intervene on several occasions.
Euler said of his loss of vision, "Now I will have fewer distractions." In 1766 a cataract in his left eye was discovered.
Since the area of the spiral is neither less than nor greater than one third the area of the circle, Archimedes concluded that they were equal.
With his gift for number relations and his ability to find proofs for many of his theorems, Fermat essentially created the modern theory of numbers.
Whether Leibniz made use of the manuscript from which he had copied extracts, or whether he had previously invented the calculus, are questions on which no direct evidence is available at present.
to compute lengths, areas and volumes as sums of tiny pieces), for which Leibniz also supplied a closely related notation involving the same differentials, a notation whose efficiency proved decisive in the development of continental European mathematics.
This definition represents a generalization of the usual definition of differentiability for vector-valued functions of (open subsets of) Euclidean spaces.
While it is possible, with carefully chosen definitions, to interpret ⁠dy/dx⁠ as a quotient of differentials, this should not be done with the higher order forms.
In mathematics, an infinitesimal number is a non-zero quantity that is closer to 0 than any non-zero real number is.
Yet, if the relativity argument, also by Berkeley, argues that the perception of an object depends on the different positions, then this means that what is perceived can either be real or not because the perception does not show that whole picture and the whole picture cannot be perceived.
Barrow-Green remarks that the theorem might well have been named for someone else had not a few copies of Rolle's 1691 publication survived.
Work in mathematics and theoretical engineering 1801: De la Corrélation des Figures de Géométrie, containing several theorems in geometry now known as Carnot's theorem Principes fondamentaux de l'équilibre et du mouvement (in French).
Gilain notes that when the portion of the curriculum devoted to Analyse Algébrique was reduced in 1825, Cauchy insisted on placing the topic of continuous functions (and therefore also infinitesimals) at the beginning of the Differential Calculus.
Cauchy's first two manuscripts (on polyhedra) were accepted; the third one (on directrices of conic sections) was rejected.
External links Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, Sämtliche Schriften und Briefe, Reihe VII: Mathematische Schriften, vol.
Most notably, he introduced the concept of a function and was the first to write f(x) to denote the function f applied to the argument x.
A number of 19th century mathematicians (Weierstrass and others) found logically rigorous ways to treat derivatives and integrals without infinitesimals using limits as shown above, while Cauchy exploited both infinitesimals and limits (see Cours d'Analyse).
As the plane traverses through the solids, these blue squares form square pyramids with isosceles faces at the cube's corners.
It is believed that he may have computed these values based on the series expansions: sin q = q − q3/3!
Historically, there was much debate over whether it was Newton or Leibniz who first "invented" calculus.
No participant doubted that Newton had already developed his method of fluxions when Leibniz began working on the differential calculus, yet there was seemingly no proof beyond Newton's word.
Berkeley sought to take apart the then foundations of calculus, claimed to uncover numerous gaps in proof, attacked the use of infinitesimals, the diagonal of the unit square, the very existence of numbers, etc.
If every line parallel to these two lines intersects both regions in line segments of equal length, then the two regions have equal areas.
Then we have 1 3 a ( C ) − a ( S ) > a ( Q ) − a ( P ) {\textstyle {\frac {1}{3}}a(C)-a(S)>a(Q)-a(P)} by the assumption, and thus 1 3 a ( C ) > a ( Q ) + a ( S ) − a ( P ) > a ( Q ) {\textstyle {\frac {1}{3}}a(C)>a(Q)+a(S)-a(P)>a(Q)} since the spiral encloses P {\textstyle P} .
Work Rolle was an early critic of infinitesimal calculus, arguing that it was inaccurate, based upon unsound reasoning, and was a collection of ingenious fallacies, but later changed his opinion.
A fluxion is the instantaneous rate of change, or gradient, of a fluent (a time-varying quantity, or function) at a given point.
But we can explicitly calculate the area of Q {\textstyle Q} , as it equals the sum of the areas of the n {\displaystyle n} exterior circular segments, each of which has area θ 2 r i 2 , {\textstyle {\frac {\theta }{2}}r_{i}^{2},} for i ∈ { 1 , … , n } {\textstyle i\in \{1,\dots ,n\}} .
God, however, has not preserved the scientist from error and has not safeguarded science from shortcomings and faults.
Infinitesimals in teaching Calculus textbooks based on infinitesimals include the classic Calculus Made Easy by Silvanus P.
It contains the first published description in Europe of the Gaussian elimination algorithm, which Rolle called the method of substitution.
It was written by the French mathematician Guillaume de l'Hôpital, and treated only the subject of differential calculus.
Engineering In engineering, one account of his career as a civil engineer has him summoned to Egypt by the Fatimid Caliph, Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah, to regulate the flooding of the Nile River.
Michael Sean Mahoney (1971) wrote:Fermat's Method of maxima and minima, which is clearly applicable to any polynomial P(x), originally rested on purely finitistic algebraic foundations.
The succeeding terms are obtained by a process of iteration when the first term is repeatedly multiplied by the square of the sine and divided by the square of the cosine.
(Rolle's theorem was named by Giusto Bellavitis in 1846.) Rolle was one of the most vocal early antagonists of calculus – ironically so, because Rolle's theorem is essential for basic proofs in calculus.
For quite some time, contemporaries of Cauchy ignored his theory, believing it to be too complicated.
(1983), Calculus with Analytic Geometry (Alternate ed.), Prindle, Weber and Schmidt, ISBN 0-87150-341-7
Known as "a legend in AP calculus circles," Leithold was the mentor of Jaime Escalante, the Los Angeles high-school teacher whose story is the subject of the 1988 movie Stand and Deliver.
External links O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Michel Rolle", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews Michel Rolle Biography
(Itard uses the symbol ∽ {\displaystyle \scriptstyle \backsim } .) Joseph Ehrenfried Hofmann (1963) wrote:Fermat chooses a quantity h, thought as sufficiently small, and puts f(x + h) roughly equal (ungefähr gleich) to f(x).
The key for the determination of volume and surface area is the observation that the tricylinder can be resampled by the cube with the vertices where 3 edges meet (s.
1985 - Louis de Branges de Bourcia proves the Bieberbach conjecture, See also Timeline of ancient Greek mathematicians Timeline of geometry – Notable events in the history of geometry Timeline of mathematical logic Timeline of mathematics == References ==
In spite of these successes, Cauchy chose an engineering career, and prepared himself for the entrance examination to the École Polytechnique.
Death There are several divergent accounts of Archimedes' death during the sack of Syracuse after it fell to the Romans: The oldest account, from Livy, says that, while drawing figures in the dust, Archimedes was killed by a Roman soldier who did not know he was Archimedes.
This discovery was set forth in his famous work Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica without mentioning Hooke.
Critique of infinitesimal calculus In a criticism of infinitesimal calculus that predated George Berkeley's, Rolle presented a series of papers at the French academy, alleging that the use of the methods of infinitesimal calculus leads to errors.
Yushkevich (ed), History of mathematics from the most ancient times to the beginning of the 19th century, vol 2, Mathematics of the 17th century (in Russian).
From the definition of a cycloid, it has width 2πr and height 2r, so its area is four times the area of the circle.
He had published a calculation of a tangent with the note: "This is only a special case of a general method whereby I can calculate curves and determine maxima, minima, and centers of gravity." How this was done he explained to a pupil 20 years later, when Leibniz's articles were already well-read.
In 1741, he requested permission to leave for Berlin, arguing he was in need of a milder climate for his eyesight.
Although the rule did not originate with l'Hôpital, it appeared in print for the first time in his 1696 treatise on the infinitesimal calculus, entitled Analyse des Infiniment Petits pour l'Intelligence des Lignes Courbes.
The kappa curve's curvature: κ ( θ ) = 8 ( 3 − sin 2 ⁡ θ ) sin 4 ⁡ θ a ( sin 2 ⁡ ( 2 θ ) + 4 ) 3 2 .
Leibniz adapted the integral symbol ∫ {\displaystyle \textstyle \int } from the initial elongated s of the Latin word ſumma ("sum") as written at the time.
However, as stated above, which results are precisely Madhava's and which are those of his successors is difficult to determine.
Rolle's statement of the method seems not to have been noticed insofar as the lesson for Gaussian elimination that was taught in 18th- and 19th-century algebra textbooks owes more to Newton than to Rolle.
Berkeley Bibliography (1979–2010) Archived 3 July 2013 at the Wayback Machine – A Supplement to those of Jessop and Turbayne by Silvia Parigi.
{\displaystyle y=f(x).} Then the derivative of the function f, in Leibniz's notation for differentiation, can be written as d y d x or d d x y or d ( f ( x ) ) d x .
He said, "I have never grasped at fame among foreign nations, but I am very desirous to preserve my character for honesty, which the author of that epistle, as if by the authority of a great judge, had endeavoured to wrest from me.
According to Koetsier, the generality of algebra principle assumed, roughly, that the algebraic rules that hold for a certain class of expressions can be extended to hold more generally on a larger class of objects, even if the rules are no longer obviously valid.
{\displaystyle {\frac {d^{3}y}{dx^{3}}}\,=\,{\frac {d}{dx}}\left({\frac {d^{2}y}{dx^{2}}}\right)\,=\,{\frac {d}{dx}}\left({\frac {d}{dx}}\left({\frac {dy}{dx}}\right)\right).} Similarly, the higher derivatives may be obtained inductively.
The symbol was based on the ſ (long s) character and was chosen because Leibniz thought of the integral as an infinite sum of infinitesimal summands.
Other propositions in the palimpsest A series of propositions of geometry are proved in the palimpsest by similar arguments.
Newton's early work on motion In the 1660s Newton studied the motion of colliding bodies and deduced that the centre of mass of two colliding bodies remains in uniform motion.
The ancient Greeks used various precursor techniques such as Archimedes's mechanical arguments or method of exhaustion to compute these volumes.
The two lunes formed from a right triangle by erecting a semicircle on each of the triangle's sides, inward for the hypotenuse and outward for the other two sides, are known as the lunes of Alhazen; they have the same total area as the triangle itself.
But nevertheless integrating this term-by-term gives (1), an identity which is known to be true by Fourier analysis.
Only in the 1840s the theory started to get response, with Pierre Alphonse Laurent being the first mathematician besides Cauchy to make a substantial contribution (his work on what are now known as Laurent series, published in 1843).
Complex functions Cauchy is most famous for his single-handed development of complex function theory.
The quality of cryptography at that time was mixed; despite the individual successes of mathematicians such as François Viète, the principles underlying cipher design and analysis were very poorly understood.
The public recognition of his achievement led to a patronage under minister Louvois, a job as an elementary mathematics teacher, and eventually to a short-termed administrative post in the Ministry of War.
With respect to the review of Newton's quadrature work, all admit that there was no justification or authority for the statements made therein, which were rightly attributed to Leibniz.
However, the same problem had been solved earlier, by Archimedes in the ancient Greek world, Zu Chongzhi in ancient China, and Piero della Francesca in the early Italian Renaissance.
Analyse algébrique ("Analysis Course" in English) is a seminal textbook in infinitesimal calculus published by Augustin-Louis Cauchy in 1821.
Le Calcul infinitésimal (1823) Leçons sur les applications de calcul infinitésimal; La géométrie (1826–1828) His other works include: Mémoire sur les intégrales définies, prises entre des limites imaginaires [A Memorandum on definite integrals taken between imaginary limits] (in French).
In 1356 he received his doctorate and in the same year he became grand master (grand-maître) of the College of Navarre.
Using properties of this function, he generalized Fermat's little theorem to what is now known as Euler's theorem.
Published in 1810 under the title "Traité de la Défense des Places Fortes", his ideas on fortification were further developed in the third edition which was published in 1812.
Some examples of the method had previously appeared in algebra books, and Isaac Newton had previously described the method in his lecture notes, but Newton's lesson was not published until 1707.
The University of St Andrews Library holds both variants of the first edition, as well as copies of the 1713 and 1726 editions.
The volume of the cylinder is base × height = π r 2 ⋅ r = π r 3 {\displaystyle {\text{base}}\times {\text{height}}=\pi r^{2}\cdot r=\pi r^{3}} ("Base" is in units of area; "height" is in units of distance.
French sculptor Théophile Barrau made a marble statue named Hommage à Pierre Fermat as a tribute to Fermat, now at the Capitole de Toulouse.
The condition of balance ensures that the volume of the cone plus the volume of the sphere is equal to the volume of the cylinder.
Although Alhazen is often credited with the perceived distance explanation, he was not the first author to offer it.
Two volumes treating the differential and integral calculus, respectively, had been authored by Johann Bernoulli in 1691–1692, and the latter was published in 1724 to become the first published textbook on the integral calculus.
600 - Liu Zhuo is the first person to use second-order interpolation for computing the positions of the sun and the moon.
He strove intently to demonstrate that it gave erroneous results and was based on unsound reasoning.
Mathematics Oresme's most important contributions to mathematics are contained in Tractatus de configurationibus qualitatum et motuum.
Entering the challenge, Johann proposed the cycloid, the path of a point on a moving wheel, also pointing out the relation this curve bears to the path taken by a ray of light passing through layers of varied density.
According to Leibniz's notebooks, a critical breakthrough occurred on 11 November 1675, when he employed integral calculus for the first time to find the area under the graph of a function y = f(x).
Finally, the order and purposefulness of the whole of our experience of the world and especially of nature overwhelms us into believing in the existence of an extremely powerful and intelligent spirit that causes that order.
Berkeley refused to believe that they were accurate because of the use of the infinitesimal ⁠ o {\displaystyle o} ⁠.
In this treatise the methods of analysis of Descartes and Cavalieri were systematised and extended, but some ideas were open to criticism.
In that book Rolle firmly established the notation for the nth root of a real number, and proved a polynomial version of the theorem that today bears his name.
But Leibniz also had cryptographic interests and tried to get Wallis to divulge some of his trade secrets, which Wallis declined to do as a matter of patriotic principle.
Formulation Using the Cartesian coordinate system it can be expressed as x 2 ( x 2 + y 2 ) = a 2 y 2 {\displaystyle x^{2}\left(x^{2}+y^{2}\right)=a^{2}y^{2}} or, using parametric equations, x = a sin ⁡ t , y = a sin ⁡ t tan ⁡ t .
Fluxions were introduced by Isaac Newton to describe his form of a time derivative (a derivative with respect to time).
Archimedes Archimedes used the method of exhaustion as a way to compute the area inside a circle by filling the circle with a sequence of polygons with an increasing number of sides and a corresponding increase in area.
, {\displaystyle \int _{0}^{\infty }e^{-x}x^{n-1}dx=(n-1)!,} but the integral converges for all positive real n {\displaystyle n} and defines an analytic continuation of the factorial function to all of the complex plane except for poles at zero and the negative integers.
d) The area of the Steiner inellipse is π 3 3 {\displaystyle {\tfrac {\pi }{3{\sqrt {3}}}}} -times the area of the triangle.
A smooth diffeomorphism F : M → M {\displaystyle F:M\to M} is conformal if F ∗ g = e 2 φ g {\displaystyle F^{*}g=e^{2\varphi }g} for some smooth function φ {\displaystyle \varphi } .
These finite classical polar spaces can be summarised by the following table, where n {\displaystyle n} is the dimension of the underlying projective space and r {\displaystyle r} is the rank of the polar space.
In 1607, The Italian Jesuit Matteo Ricci and the Chinese mathematician Xu Guangqi published the first Chinese edition of Euclid's Elements.
Say, 'Are you more knowing or is Allah?' And who is more unjust than one who conceals a testimony he has from Allah?
It is a parallelohedron because it can be space-filling a honeycomb in which all of its copies meet face-to-face.
{\displaystyle k={\frac {3}{\pi }}\ln(\rho ).} For parallelogram base ⁠ ρ {\displaystyle \rho } ⁠, the length of the short diagonal is ρ 2 − ρ + 1 {\displaystyle {\sqrt {\rho ^{2}-\rho +1}}} with angle arctan ⁡ ( 3 1 − 2 ρ ) .
Tetrahedra do not tile space, and an upper bound below 100% (namely, 1 − (2.6...)·10−25) has been reported.
It was written by the Italian master Piero della Francesca in the mid-1470s to 1480s, and possibly by about 1474.
325 BC), Metrodorus from likely the 6th century AD (though he may have lived as early as the 3rd century AD), and Apollodorus Logisticus and Proclus of Laodicea.
See also Mnemonist Cadaeic Cadenza Memory sport Pi Day Notes and references External links Pi World Ranking List Tools for Piphilologist Archived 2011-12-03 at the Wayback Machine Collection of Mnemonic Devices Mathworld Pi Wordplay Hatzipolakis Pi Philology v.
For a body of mass m, the centripetal force is, by Newton's second law, F c = m a c = m v 2 r {\displaystyle F_{c}=ma_{c}={\frac {mv^{2}}{r}}} In the simplest case the speed, mass, and radius are constant.
The center-of-mass kinetic energy of the molecule will, however, be unchanged at p 2 / 2 M {\displaystyle p^{2}/2M} .
It is named for Edmond Laguerre and Andrew Forsyth, the latter of whom analyzed the invariant in an influential book on ordinary differential equations.
In his self-published book Einstein Plus Two and in Internet flame wars, he claimed that the theory of relativity is incorrect.
How I love a verse Contrived to unhusk dryly One image nutshell Songs In 2004, Andrew Huang wrote a song that was a mnemonic for the first fifty digits of pi, titled "I am the first 50 digits of pi".
Through any pair of points an infinite straight line can be drawn, a one-dimensional set of points; through any three points that are not collinear, a two-dimensional plane can be drawn; and, in general, through k + 1 points in general position, a k-dimensional flat or affine subspace can be drawn.
This concept of the apotome appears in Euclid's Elements beginning in book X, where Euclid defines two special kinds of apotomes.
In 1882, the task was proven to be impossible, as a consequence of the Lindemann–Weierstrass theorem, which proves that pi (π) is a transcendental number, rather than an algebraic irrational number; that is, it is not the root of any polynomial with rational coefficients.
Further development of the theory of plane curves is only fruitful when it is connected with the theory of Riemann surfaces and Abelian functions.
The next sequence of six consecutive identical digits is again composed of 9s, starting at position 193,034.
By continuity this reduces to the computation of crossed homomorphisms 𝜙 of the Witt algebra into Fλ(S1).
According to Muzaffar Iqbal, this translation and that of Aryabhatta was of considerable influence on geographic, astronomy and related Islamic scholarship.
The rotation around a fixed axis of a three-dimensional body involves the circular motion of its parts.
In 1987, the Chudnovsky brothers developed the algorithm (now called the Chudnovsky algorithm) that they used to break several π computation records.
It is described by the polar equation r ( θ ) = a exp ⁡ ( k θ ) , {\displaystyle r(\theta )=a\exp(k\theta ),} with initial radius ⁠ a {\displaystyle a} ⁠ and parameter k = 2 π ln ⁡ ( ρ ) .
Fuchsian groups on the upper half-plane Let H = { z ∈ C | Im ⁡ z > 0 } {\displaystyle H=\{z\in \mathbb {C} |\operatorname {Im} {z}>0\}} be the upper half-plane.
The first line has three syllables, the second has one, the third has four, and so on, following the sequence of pi as it extends infinitely.
A projective variety is, by definition, a closed subvariety of P n {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} ^{n}} , where closed refers to the Zariski topology.
Much of Piero's work was later absorbed into the writing of others, notably Luca Pacioli, whose Divina proportione (1509) discusses Piero's use of perspective, as well featuring an uncredited translation of Piero's entire work on solid geometry, De quinque corporibus regularibus.
one can safely assume that it belongs to the very oldest period of Pythagorean mathematics." Around 300 BC, in Euclid's Elements, the oldest extant axiomatic proof of the theorem is presented, along with Euclid's formula for generating all primitive Pythagorean triples.
According to a summary by one reviewer: Most of the contributors consider that the setting out was done ad quadratum, using the sides of a square and its diagonal.
Affine properties In Euclidean geometry, the common phrase "affine property" refers to a property that can be proved in affine spaces, that is, it can be proved without using the quadratic form and its associated inner product.
The resulting projective subspaces are often called affine subspaces of the projective space P, as opposed to the infinite or ideal subspaces, which are the subspaces of the hyperplane at infinity (however, they are projective spaces, not affine spaces).
With a right triangular ruler In 1932, Ludwig Bieberbach published in Journal für die reine und angewandte Mathematik his work Zur Lehre von den kubischen Konstruktionen.
In particular, SL(2,Z) can be used to tessellate the hyperbolic plane into cells of equal (Poincaré) area.
{\displaystyle z_{1},z_{2}\in U.} A generalization of this theorem was proved by Shing-Tung Yau in 1973.
"Pi" is to show that contemporary art is in a position to connect art to science, architecture and sociology.
475 – 221 BCE) as a diagram of the mathematical relations between the five notes in a particular Chinese musical scale.
Let ƒ be the fraction of the circumference subtended by the golden angle, or equivalently, the golden angle divided by the angular measurement of the circle.
Other more complicated methods of doubling the cube involve neusis, the cissoid of Diocles, the conchoid of Nicomedes, or the Philo line.
Between 1903 and 1911, Young held positions at Northwestern University, Princeton University, the University of Illinois, the University of Kansas, and the University of Chicago.
A special class of these are spherical tensor operators which apply the notion of the spherical basis and spherical harmonics.
Thomas Gent, that "as it never proved of any effect, it was converted to waste paper, to the great mortification of the author".
{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}a_{n+1}&={\frac {a_{n}+b_{n}}{2}},\\\\b_{n+1}&={\sqrt {a_{n}b_{n}}},\\\\p_{n+1}&=2p_{n},\\\\t_{n+1}&=t_{n}-p_{n}(a_{n+1}-a_{n})^{2}.\\\end{aligned}}} π is then approximated as: π ≈ ( a n + 1 + b n + 1 ) 2 4 t n + 1 .
According to Plutarch, however, the citizens of Delos consulted the oracle at Delphi to find a solution for their internal political problems at the time, which had intensified relationships among the citizens.
* The butter-knot is shaped like this: Uses in modern occultism Based on Renaissance-era occultism, the pentagram entered the symbolism of modern occultists.
The type of a Fuchsian group need not be the same as its type when considered as a Kleinian group: in fact, all Fuchsian groups are Kleinian groups of type 2, as their limit sets (as Kleinian groups) are proper subsets of the Riemann sphere, contained in some circle.
In mathematics, a Fuchsian model is a representation of a hyperbolic Riemann surface R as a quotient of the upper half-plane H by a Fuchsian group.
The twelve vertices of the icosahedron can be decomposed in this way into three mutually-perpendicular golden rectangles, whose boundaries are linked in the pattern of the Borromean rings.
Bujalance, Emilio (1986), "Automorphism groups of compact planar Klein surfaces", Manuscripta Mathematica, 56 (1): 105–124, doi:10.1007/BF01171036, MR 0846989.
In Unicode, the dotted circle (◌) is a non-significant typographic character used to illustrate the effect of a combining mark, such as a diacritic mark.
If we rotate the system by 90 ∘ {\displaystyle 90^{\circ }} about the y {\displaystyle y} axis, the momentum will change to p x ^ {\displaystyle p{\mathbf {\hat {x}} }} , which is in the x {\displaystyle x} direction.
Euclid's proof In outline, here is how the proof in Euclid's Elements (Proposition 47 of Book I)proceeds.
1400) made early strides in the analysis of trigonometric functions and their infinite series expansions.
The last four mathematical items, problems 82, 82B and 83–84, compute the amount of feed necessary for various animals, such as fowl and oxen.
Pi in the Sky was an experimental aerial art display where airplanes spelled out pi to decimal 1,000 places in the sky over the San Francisco Bay Area.
PBS aired a program on its science show Nova, hosted by Robert Krulwich, that described the difficulties in photographing the tapestries and the math used to fix them.
See also Constrained writing Piphilology Six nines in pi (handled at the start of chapter 2, "Change") References 2.
"An Archimedean Proposition Presented by the Brothers Banū Mūsā and Recovered in the Kitāb al-Istikmāl (eleventh century)" (PDF).
And although the results of the book are demonstrated in an accessible way, the book provides sequences of deductions leading to each major claim, and more-complete proofs and references are provided in an appendix.
The first few values are 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4, 4, 5, 5, 5, 6, 6, 6, 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12 (sequence A001462 in the OEIS).
the subspace does not change under rotation since the transformed components itself is a linear combination of the tensor components.
In the late 17th century Jacques Ozanam came back to this issue and in the 19th century, solutions using 8 and 7 pieces were found, including one given by the mathematician Édouard Lucas.
In this particular case this topology can most easily be defined as follows: the group Γ {\displaystyle \Gamma } is finitely generated since it is isomorphic to the fundamental group of R {\displaystyle R} .
In this definition, two line segments are said to be "commensurable only in power" when the ratio of their lengths is an irrational number but the ratio of their squared lengths is rational.
In 1944 Carl Siegel showed that ρ is the smallest possible Pisot–Vijayaraghavan number and suggested naming it in honour of Thue.
Already in 1890 Felix Klein had studied the case of quadrilaterals in terms of the Lamé differential equation.
The kinetic energy on the other hand must be represented by a scalar operator, whose expected value must be the same in the initial and the rotated states.
While a professor in Königsberg, Lindemann acted as supervisor for the doctoral theses of the mathematicians David Hilbert, Hermann Minkowski, and Arnold Sommerfeld.
Alternatively, the theorem follows immediately from the Crofton formula in integral geometry according to which the length of any curve equals the measure of the set of lines that cross the curve, multiplied by their numbers of crossings.
See also Mathematics in the medieval Islamic world Notes References Sources Casulleras, Josep (2007).
In proposition 14 of book II Euclid gives a method for squaring a rectangle, which essentially matches the method given here.
More generally, any meromorphic function can be thought of as a holomorphic function whose codomain is the Riemann sphere.
Let E and G be the midpoints of B'D and D'B respectively, and let F and H be the centers of the two squares.
Andrea created his own Vitruvian Man drawing that year, which was unknown to scholars until the 1980s.
On the other hand, Hermann Schapira argued that the treatise dates from an earlier era, most likely the Mishnaic period, as its mathematical terminology differs from that of the Hebrew mathematicians of the Arab period.
{\displaystyle \sigma ^{-n}\equiv (-1)^{n-1}\sigma ^{n}{\bmod {1}}.} The silver ratio is a Pisot number, the next quadratic Pisot number after the golden ratio.
The proofs are diverse, including both geometric proofs and algebraic proofs, with some dating back thousands of years.
Pi is located in the Opernpassage between the entrance to the subway and the subway stop in Secession near the Naschmarkt.
Although { A ^ i j } {\displaystyle \{{\hat {A}}_{ij}\}} is irreducible, the same cannot be said about { S ^ i j } {\displaystyle \{{\hat {S}}_{ij}\}} .
A line in P ˘ k n {\displaystyle {\breve {\mathbb {P} }}_{k}^{n}} is called a pencil: it is a family of hyperplanes on P k n {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} _{k}^{n}} parametrized by P k 1 {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} _{k}^{1}} .
Heath concludes that, in proving his result, Hippocrates was also the first to prove that the area of a circle is proportional to the square of its diameter.
With O the center of the hemisphere, a point P in σ determines a line OP intersecting the hemisphere, and any line L ⊂ σ determines a plane OL which intersects the hemisphere in half of a great circle.
An asymptotic expression for an is φ 2 − φ n φ − 1 {\displaystyle \varphi ^{2-\varphi }n^{\varphi -1}} where φ {\displaystyle \varphi } is the golden ratio (approximately equal to 1.618034).
He assumed the office of President on March 4, 1881, and served in that position until his death on September 19, 1881, having succumbed to injuries sustained when he was shot in an assassination in July.
He reveals that he came across the same number years ago and urges Max to take a break from his work.
139 Guggenheimer sums up the field by noting, "A Klein geometry is the theory of geometric invariants of a transitive transformation group (Erlangen program, 1872)".
The topic of Book VII is stated in Preface VII to be diameters and “the figures described upon them.” The 51 propositions of Book VII define the relationships between sections, diameters, and conjugate diameters.
The points in A ∩ B are exactly the points of A that are in a common subspace of dimension 1 with p.
This means that each circle in the sequence is tangent to the three circles that precede it and also to the three circles that follow it.
Zonohedra with golden rhombic faces The Bilinski dodecahedron can be formed from the rhombic triacontahedron (another zonohedron, with thirty congruent golden rhombic faces) by removing or collapsing two zones or belts of ten and eight golden rhombic faces with parallel edges.
However, as pre-Hellenic societies lacked the concept of an angle measure, they were limited to studying the sides of triangles instead.
The internal, long edge of the largest rectangle (the square's fault line) divides two of the square's four edges into two segments each that stand to one another in the ratio ρ.
'close ratio'), also known as Zulü (Zu's ratio), is the name given to an approximation of π (pi) found by the Chinese mathematician and astronomer Zu Chongzhi during the 5th century.
There is enough depth of material to also retain the interest of readers with a more advanced mathematical background.
Archimedean spirals can be found in spiral antenna, which can be operated over a wide range of frequencies.
Another application of this theorem provides a geometrical proof of the AM–GM inequality in the case of two numbers, since the half-circle's radius is the arithmetic mean of p and q.
Given a ring A (with 1), the projective line P1(A) over A consists of points identified by projective coordinates.
Complex projective varieties In this section, all algebraic varieties are complex algebraic varieties.
The half-plane model can be generalized to the Poincaré half-space model of ⁠ ( n + 1 ) {\displaystyle (n+1)} ⁠-dimensional hyperbolic space by replacing the single ⁠ x {\displaystyle x} ⁠ coordinate by ⁠ n {\displaystyle n} ⁠ distinct coordinates.
In Problem 59 part 1 computes the seked, while the second part may be a computation to check the answer: If you construct a pyramid with base side 12 [cubits] and with a seked of 5 palms 1 finger; what is its altitude?
The field of Jyotisha deals with ascertaining time, particularly forecasting auspicious dates and times for Vedic rituals.
{\displaystyle c_{k}/n!} where c k {\displaystyle c_{k}} is an integer, which is 0 {\displaystyle 0} if k < n .
Dividing by exterior division Draw a line segment ⁠ A S {\displaystyle AS} ⁠ and construct off the point ⁠ S {\displaystyle S} ⁠ a segment ⁠ S C {\displaystyle SC} ⁠ perpendicular to ⁠ A S {\displaystyle AS} ⁠ and with the same length as ⁠ A S {\displaystyle AS} ⁠.
The open access journal Forum Geometricorum founded by Paul Yiu of Florida Atlantic University in 2001 also provided a tremendous impetus in furthering this new found enthusiasm for triangle geometry.
Despite their accomplishments and the attention brought to them by their profile in The New Yorker, the Chudnovsky brothers largely worked alone for decades.
As a high schooler, he solved Hilbert's tenth problem, shortly after Yuri Matiyasevich had solved it.
Astronomer Johannes Kepler proposed a model of the Solar System in which the five solids were set inside one another and separated by a series of inscribed and circumscribed spheres.
{\displaystyle (T^{\dagger })_{q}^{(k)}=(-1)^{k-q}(T_{-q}^{(k)})^{\dagger }.} There is some arbitrariness in the choice of the phase factor: any factor containing (−1)±q will satisfy the commutation relations.
In 1938, Lars Ahlfors generalised the lemma to maps from the unit disk to other negatively curved surfaces: Theorem (Schwarz–Ahlfors–Pick).
Audience and reception Although it was initially developed from course material offered to undergraduates at the Tokyo University of Science, the book is aimed at a broad audience, and assumes only a high-school level knowledge of geometry.
The diagram shows the sequences of rectangles with common shrink rate ⁠ ρ − 4 {\displaystyle \rho ^{-4}} ⁠ converge at a single point on the diagonal of a rho-squared rectangle with length ρ / = 1 + ρ − 4 .
Their boundless faces and edges as elongated prisms or pyramids are orthogonal to the central planes and faces of their dual hemipolyhedra; the coincidental figures of these formed by their corresponding dual hemipolyhedra also have the rhombic triacontahedron as their convex hull.
Content This table summarizes the content of the Rhind Papyrus by means of a concise modern paraphrase.
Euler, Problematis cuiusdam Pappi Alexandrini constructio, Acta academiae scientiarum imperialis Petropolitinae 4, 1783, p.
The Minkowski sum acts linearly on the perimeters of convex bodies, so the perimeter of K must be half the perimeter of this disk, which is πw as the theorem states.
Properties Many properties of regular polygons are invariant under affine transformations, and affine-regular polygons share the same properties.
In the model circle above, the Archimedean area (accepting Goodwin's values for the circumference and diameter) would be 80.
References Ball, Simeon (2015), Finite Geometry and Combinatorial Applications, London Mathematical Society Student Texts, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-1107518438.
write, "The status of angles within the International System of Units (SI) has long been a source of controversy and confusion." In 1960, the General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM) established the SI and the radian was classified as a "supplementary unit" along with the steradian.
In this mapping, the constant z0 can be any point in the upper half plane; it will be mapped to the center of the disk.
Note that X is the closure of the affine variety X ∩ U 0 {\displaystyle X\cap U_{0}} in P n {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} ^{n}} .
The positions of the first occurrence of a string of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 consecutive 9s in the decimal expansion are 5; 44; 762; 762; 762; 762; 1,722,776; 36,356,642; and 564,665,206, respectively (sequence A048940 in the OEIS).
Similarly, starting from an affine space A, every class of parallel lines can be associated with a point at infinity.
The work was the first to propose the idea of uniting algebra and geometry into a single subject and invented an algebraic geometry called analytic geometry, which involves reducing geometry to a form of arithmetic and algebra and translating geometric shapes into algebraic equations.
The area of the surface of a sphere is equal to four times the area of the circle formed by a great circle of this sphere.
Both approaches relax the traditional limitations on the use of straightedge and compass in ancient Greek geometric proofs.
The Witt index of the form is equal to the largest vector space dimension of the subspace contained in the polar space, and it is called the rank of the polar space.
He suggests, however, that it might be easier to read the papers in the reverse of their chronological order, as the broader overview papers were written later in this sequence.
Jan van Eyck, among others, was unable to create a consistent structure for the converging lines in paintings, as in London's The Arnolfini Portrait, because he was unaware of the theoretical breakthrough just then occurring in Italy.
Metric The metric of the model on the half-plane, { ⟨ x , y ⟩ ∣ y > 0 } , {\displaystyle \{\langle x,y\rangle \mid y>0\},} is: ( d s ) 2 = ( d x ) 2 + ( d y ) 2 y 2 {\displaystyle (ds)^{2}={\frac {(dx)^{2}+(dy)^{2}}{y^{2}}}} where s measures the length along a (possibly curved) line.
Gadolin's work had a clarity that attracted widespread attention, and caused Hessel's earlier work to be neglected.
For instance, if (x1, ..., xn, xn+1) are homogeneous coordinates for n-dimensional projective space, then the equation xn+1 = 0 defines a hyperplane at infinity for the n-dimensional affine space with coordinates (x1, ..., xn).
See also Indiana pi bill Yutori education Curriculum guideline (Japan) Approximations of π References "「脱ゆとり」の真相：中〉円周率「3」の波紋 06 Sep.
Euclidean properties In the Euclidean plane, the four lines of a complete quadrilateral must not include any pairs of parallel lines, so that every pair of lines has a crossing point.
Geodesic flows on the Poincaré disk are Anosov flows; that article develops the notation for such flows.
Beginning from the earlier contributions of Euclid and Archimedes on the topic, he brought them to the state prior to the invention of analytic geometry.
Central line Another unifying notion of contemporary modern triangle geometry is that of a central line.
Adam Adamandy Kochański IPA: [ˈadam adaˈmandɨ kɔˈxaj̃ski] (5 August 1631 – 17 May 1700) was a Polish mathematician, physicist, clock-maker, pedagogue and librarian.
Starting with this model, one can obtain the flow on arbitrary Riemann surfaces, as described in the article on the Anosov flow.
In geometry, a quadratrix (from Latin quadrator 'squarer') is a curve that can be used for quadrature, constructing the area under another curve.
The same commentary also gives the correction term F 3 ( n ) {\displaystyle F_{3}(n)} in the following verses (Chapter 2: Verses 295–296): English translation of the verses: "A subtler method, with another correction.
One can extend absolute geometry by adding various axioms about parallel lines and get mutually incompatible but internally consistent axiom systems, giving rise to Euclidean or hyperbolic geometry.
In a document mention is made of the reconstruction of the borg after 1514 for the sum of 1200 gold pieces, excluding some exterior buildings.
The hsuan thu diagram, in its generalized form can be found in the writings of the Indian mathematician Bhaskara II (c.
Application Repeated application of the Finsler–Hadwiger theorem can be used to prove Van Aubel's theorem, on the congruence and perpendicularity of segments through centers of four squares constructed on the sides of an arbitrary quadrilateral.
Accordingly, the number τ shares many of the properties of π, including being a transcendental number and hence also irrational.
Properties Spherical geometry has the following properties: Any two great circles intersect in two diametrically opposite points, called antipodal points.
{\displaystyle [\zeta ,\ 1]{\begin{pmatrix}a&c\\b&d\end{pmatrix}}\ =\ [a\zeta +b,\ c\zeta +d]\ =\ {\begin{pmatrix}{\tfrac {a\zeta +b}{c\zeta +d}}&1\end{pmatrix}}\ =\ [f(\zeta ),\ 1].} Thus the Möbius transformations can be described as two-by-two complex matrices with nonzero determinant.
{\displaystyle u''(z)+{\tfrac {1}{2}}p(z)u(z)=0.} There are n−3 linearly independent accessory parameters, which can be difficult to determine in practise.
Sir William Schooling (16 December 1860 – 18 February 1936) was a British expert on insurance and statistics.
The Book on the Measurement of Plane and Spherical Figures (Arabic: كتاب معرفة مساحة الأشكال البسيطة والكريّة, Kitāb maʿrifah masāḥat al-ashkāl al-basīṭah wa-al-kuriyyah) was the most important of the works produced by the Banū Mūsā (three 9th century Persian brothers who worked in Baghdad).
Again these act on the space of polynomials of degree ≤ k by differentiation—it can be identified with C[[z]]/(zk+1)—and the images of d0, ..., dk – 1 give a basis of the Lie algebra of Gk.
{\displaystyle 8100a+bx(180-x).} A little experimentation (or by setting up and solving two linear equations in a and b) will yield the values a = 5/4, b = −1/4.
1800 BCE Plimpton 322 tablet containing a table of triplets, however also states that Shulba sutras contain a formula not found in Babylon sources.
Baxter published another work, Matho, or the Principles of Astronomy and Natural Philosophy accommodated to the Use of Younger Persons (London: 1740).
In projective geometry, the Laguerre–Forsyth invariant is a cubic differential that is an invariant of a projective plane curve.
According to Plutarch, writing many centuries later, the ancient Egyptians did know about the 3:4:5 right triangle, identifying its sides with Osiris, Isis, and Horus respectively.
A geometry that is independent of Euclid's fifth postulate and assumes that two different lines have at most one intersection point (i.e., only assumes the modern equivalent of the first four postulates) is known as an absolute geometry (or sometimes "neutral geometry").
{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{\pi }}={\frac {2{\sqrt {2}}}{9801}}\sum _{k=0}^{\infty }{\frac {(4k)!(1103+26390k)}{k!^{4}396^{4k}}}.} This series converges much more rapidly than most arctan series, including Machin's formula.
Kodaira's theorem is one of various vanishing theorems, which give criteria for higher sheaf cohomologies to vanish.
When A is not empty, RA consists of all those points on a line connecting a point on R and a point on A.
PSL(2,R) is contained as an index-two normal subgroup, the other coset being the set of 2×2 matrices with real entries whose determinant equals −1, modulo plus or minus the identity.
Roman architect Vitruvius recommended the implied ad quadratura ratio as one of three for proportioning a town house atrium.
The 18th and 19th centuries Non-Euclidean geometry The very old problem of proving Euclid's Fifth Postulate, the "Parallel Postulate", from his first four postulates had never been forgotten.
For example, the visual above showing an object at the top of a semicircle would be expressed as F c = n + m g {\displaystyle F_{c}=n+mg} .
It was published by Felix Klein in 1872 as Vergleichende Betrachtungen über neuere geometrische Forschungen.
The book has 16 self-contained chapters, each beginning with an illustrative puzzle or real-world application.
To ensure that all tilings are non-periodic, there are matching rules that specify how tiles may meet each other, and there are three different types of matching rule for the pentagonal tiles.
Any attempt to tile the plane with regular pentagons necessarily leaves gaps, but Johannes Kepler showed, in his 1619 work Harmonices Mundi, that these gaps can be filled using pentagrams (star polygons), decagons and related shapes.
The Ginza Loft sold a limited number of 314 copies and placed POP hand-drawn by King Jim's Twitter representative.
He was head of the department of Mathematics at Dartmouth College from 1911 to 1919 and chair of the department from 1923 to 1925.
This result can be generalized as in the "n-dimensional Pythagorean theorem": Let x 1 , x 2 , … , x n {\displaystyle x_{1},x_{2},\ldots ,x_{n}} be orthogonal vectors in Rn.
Western symbolism Middle Ages The pentagram was used in Christendom during the Middle Ages as a symbol for the five senses and of the Five Holy Wounds of Jesus Christ.
Many artists then attempted to design figures which would satisfy Vitruvius' description, with the earliest being three such images by Francesco di Giorgio Martini around the 1470s.
The common traditional construction uses compass and straightedge to approximate the arithmetic spiral.
Mathematics Approximation of π Although the bill has become known as the "pi bill", its text does not use the word "pi" at all.
If g is a Möbius transformation, then the composition g o f has the same Schwarzian derivative as f; and on the other hand, the Schwarzian derivative of f o g is given by the chain rule ( S ( f ∘ g ) ) ( z ) = ( S f ) ( g ( z ) ) ⋅ g ′ ( z ) 2 .
Many modern techniques were found, in embryonic form, and in some cases the articulation of these ideas exceeded the available technical language.
Coxeter, who generalised the two-dimensional case to sequences of spheres and hyperspheres in higher dimensions.
Nevertheless, according to Boyer, Apollonius' treatment of curves is in some ways similar to the modern treatment, and his work seems to anticipate analytical geometry.
See also Continued fraction expansion of π and its convergents Approximations of π Pi Approximation Day Notes References External links Fractional Approximations of Pi
Golden ratio Barr was a friend of William Schooling, and worked with him in exploiting the properties of the golden ratio to develop arithmetic algorithms suitable for mechanical calculators.
There is an infinitesimal version of this result giving a 1-cocycle for Vect(S1), the Lie algebra of smooth vector fields, and hence for the Witt algebra, the subalgebra of trigonometric polynomial vector fields.
Xuan tu or Hsuan thu (simplified Chinese: 弦图; traditional Chinese: 絃圖; pinyin: xuántú; Wade–Giles: hsüan² tʻu²) is a diagram given in the ancient Chinese astronomical and mathematical text Zhoubi Suanjing indicating a proof of the Pythagorean theorem.
This defines the structure of a smooth n-manifold if Γ consists of local diffeomorphisms and a Riemann surface if n = 2—so that R2 ≡ C—and Γ consists of biholomorphisms.
Since the number |Ω| = n + 1 is even, for any point Pi, there must exist at least one more tangent through that point.
A third representation is on the punctured disk, where relations for q-analogues are sometimes expressed.
{\displaystyle \rho .} ⁠ Substituting b = ρ c {\displaystyle b=\rho c\,} and a = ρ b = ρ 2 c {\displaystyle a=\rho b=\rho ^{2}c\,} in the last fraction, ρ = c ( ρ + 1 ) ρ 2 c .
In his translation of Euclid's Elements, Heath outlines a number of milestones necessary for irrationality to be considered to have been discovered, and points out the lack of evidence that Indian mathematics had achieved those milestones in the era of the Shulba Sutras.
Pi, under construction from January 2005 to November 2006 and opened in December 2006, consists of statistical information and a representation of π to 478 decimal places.
The complete quadrangle was called a tetrastigm by Lachlan (1893), and the complete quadrilateral was called a tetragram; those terms are occasionally still used.
In circular motion, the distance between the body and a fixed point on its surface remains the same, i.e., the body is assumed rigid.
= π 2 {\displaystyle \sum _{k=0}^{\infty }{\frac {k!}{(2k+1)!!}}=\sum _{k=0}^{\infty }{\frac {2^{k}k!^{2}}{(2k+1)!}}={\frac {\pi }{2}}} (see also Double factorial) ∑ k = 0 ∞ k !
In the next problem (Problem 57), the height of a pyramid is calculated from the base length and the seked (Egyptian for slope), while problem 58 gives the length of the base and the height and uses these measurements to compute the seked.
The next distinct sequence of six consecutive identical digits after that starts with the digit 8 at position 222,299.
The Hadamard three-circle theorem is a statement about the maximum value a holomorphic function may take inside an annulus.
Although the family was harassed by the KGB for attempting to leave the country, the brothers were eventually able to secure their emigration with the help of United States Senator Henry M.
The numbers were produced by spraying natural, burnt-off canola oil, which dissipated, causing no environmental damage.
Incidents The water hog at the Taunton cricket ground failed, in May 2006, delaying the start of the Somerset v Hampshire C&G Trophy match, which was subsequently abandoned.
Many treadmill desks are programmed to pause the belt if the user steps off for more than 20 seconds during a workout.
Obstruction means a player touches the ball when it is above or traveling towards the playing surface, not having touched the player's court since last being struck by the player.
Other names The tracksuit is also known as a warm-up suit, or "warmups" for short, as they are intended for athletes to keep their bodies warm before or after competition, and during breaks (especially important in cold weather).
A shin guard or shin pad is a piece of equipment worn on the front of an athlete's shin to protect it from injury.
This makes ball lenses particularly suited for coupling light from a laser to a fiber-optic cable or a detector, or from one fiber-optic cable to another, or for micro-optical systems.
Billabong), it is widely accepted that the term billycan is derived from bouilli can, the name given to the empty canisters used for preserving soup and bouilli and other foods.
This decision was condemned on both sides of the political spectrum in New Zealand with the two major parties describing it as unfair.
The international law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher took on the cross-border dispute and filed a complaint in Federal court against Edenred.
Treston made a sliotar at a nearby saddler, which was used in the game, and went on to be a prototype for subsequent sliotars.
Some bolted crags use fixed permadraws, which are on-site wire or chain quickdraws that are permanently attached to the bolt hangers.
Other applications do exist though for protecting the lower leg in other physical activities such as hiking, mixed martial arts, and kickboxing, but all these activities can also be considered for sport instead of being necessary in battle.
The Darrell Survey reports on golf equipment used during PGA Tour events, as well as at tournaments on the Korn Ferry Tour, LPGA, and Champions Tours.
The intention of an anchor is case-specific but is usually for fall protection, primarily fall arrest and fall restraint.
The company is best known for developing the Happy Nappy system (in Britain, a nappy is a diaper), which comprises waterproof neoprene outer layers with leak-restricting grip and an inner absorbent layer.
The belief that sheet latex is superior to all molded latex is completely false; ultimately, a garment's success depends on its creator's abilities, as even poorly made sheet latex can easily fail.
He purchased the rights to the product and contracted a manufacturer in China to produce the equipment.
A versatile nut/cam hybrid, the Tricam was invented by Greg Lowe in 1973, and came to market in 1981.
WAG bags are one method of safely packing out human waste from remote areas and places without facilities.
Prior to 1920, men and women could both demonstrate their being at leisure simply by removing a jacket, either literally in the case of menswear, or metaphorically by a woman wearing a shirtwaist blouse that resembled a man's shirt worn without a jacket.
Students, enrolled in military boarding schools in India, are issued a 'hold-all' to carry their blankets, quilts and clothes.
It was founded in Beveren-Roeselare (Belgium) in 1928 by the brothers-in-law Valler Snauwaert and Eugeen Depla.
Large-sized commercial or military tents do often stand on flooring systems, which are large-sized tent platforms.
In the Spanish language, the word is possibly a diminutive form of the word macho, which was used to refer to sledgehammers.
Pro shops at golf facilities usually provide equipment such as golf balls, clubs, shoes, and tees, as well as golf-themed gift items, and sometimes snacks or refreshments.
twist lock A climbing move where the hips "twist" perpendicular to the wall, the inside arm is "locked" on an upper hold, the outside arm holds the body against the wall, and the feet press down to propel the body higher.
To fit non-parallel cracks, there are SLCDs with asymmetrical "offset" cams and devices that expand the lobes independently (Totem Cam).
Umbro also manufactured a popular style of shorts that reached its peak in the United States in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
History Persons with a sedentary lifestyle are at increased risk for heart disease, diabetes, and lower than average life expectancy.
His father, former track and field athlete and coach, after the collapse of the USSR, started selling sporting goods, which inspired Artur and his brother to start the brand.
It is the instantaneous force exerted that makes the difference, not the sum of all the forces over time.
By the mid-1980s, sportswear had become a key part of the international fashion scene, forming a large part of America's contribution to the twice-yearly fashion presentations alongside top-end collections from Paris, Milan and London.
Typically, it is a wooden deck near a hiking trail that provides the hikers a clean and even place to sleep.
The etymology of this word not only describes the use and purpose of shin guards, but also contributes to dating the technology.
Spherical balls include the baseball, basketball, Gaelic ball, cricket ball, golf ball, lacrosse ball, tennis ball, and the ball used in association football.
Terminology Dopp kit is a term that originated in the early 20th century, originally referring to toiletry kits for men and World War II soldiers before later becoming a common term for toiletry kits, particularly ones made with leather or other high-quality materials.
Another account suggests that the cyclical nature of blue jean sales has allowed athleisure apparel to supplant denim as casual wear.
Each of the simple machines (pulley, lever, wheel, incline) changes the mechanical advantage of the overall machine relative to the weight.
It was the first shoe to introduce the "P" logo which has since been used on all of the company's shoes.
Made of a nylon webbing structure consisting of one large loop sewn in multiple places to make a shorter length.
Regulations specify the size, colour and the placement of sponsor, national federation and manufacturer logos and other graphics.
In 2004, The Athlete's Foot filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and announced that they would close all of their 124 company-owned stores in the United States, leaving the brand with 593 independent franchise locations left.
CryoNick technology facilitates hot and cold exercise recovery, making it particularly suitable for rehabilitation and physical therapy.
Bedding options range from a pillow made from clothes to a sleep system consisting of a sleeping pad, sleeping bag, bivouac shelter, bag liner, and compression sack.
In 1916, the Cleveland Indians became the first team to add numbers on their uniforms, positioned on the left sleeve of the home uniforms only.
In late 2016, Giant announced the Road-E+ e-Bike, which features: HCT (Hybrid Cycling Technology) drive system 500 watt 80Nm Yamaha mid drive motor 400Wh or 500Wh EnergyPack integrated frame battery PedalPlus 4-sensor technology RideControl display & control pad with Bluetooth integration.
Rice's claim that "all players" in his era used Stickum was quickly denied by Hall of Fame contemporaries Cris Carter and Michael Irvin.
His course designing credits include the East course at North Berwick, Moffat, Rothesay, Craigielaw Links, the Merchants of Edinburgh, Adare Manor, West Monmouthshire, the Spey Bay Golf Club in Banffshire, and the Ballathie Hotel course in Perthshire.
A snow picket is usually made of lightweight aluminum in 18–36-inch-long (46–91 cm) long T-shaped design.
However, further studies must be conducted to show evidence of significant changes on cardiometabolic health.
As the wicket-keeper is positioned directly behind the batsman, and therefore has the ball bowled directly at them, they are the only fielder allowed to wear gloves and (external) leg guards.
Many advanced jugglers can juggle seven or more balls at once, but not seven or more rings or clubs.
Padiddling was popularized during freestyle disk (frisbee) competitions in the 1970s until it fell out of favor in the early 1980s.
Fashion history Sweatpants were first invented by French sportswear manufacturer Le Coq Sportif in 1920 to provide athletes with comfort and ease of mobility.
The proceeds from the auction were used to support emergency services responding to 2019–20 Australian bushfire season.
In 2000 Callahan reported to Sydney Morning Herald that his company was building 600 to 700 chairs a year at around AUD 2,000 per chair, and almost all of Australia's wheelchair basketball team was using his chairs.
Health reformer Mary Gove Nichols drafted a Declaration of Independence from the Despotism of Parisian Fashion and gathered signatures to it at lectures on woman's dress.
Some manufacturers have explored other shapes; for example, Yogamatters make an oval block, comfortable for sitting but less versatile as a support.
Involvement in football Carbrini was first introduced to JD Sports in 2006 with their funky clothing line of urban footwear.
This provided protection from testicle torsion, from squishing them between the thighs, and for modesty purposes.
The brand was associated with football and several pro teams that play in the English and Scottish football pyramids were supplied with Carbrini kits and training range.
Splash About International, usually referred to as Splash About, is a British company that best known as a designer, manufacturer and retailer of swimwear and swimming aids for children and babies.
Molten-iron shells were easier to handle and somewhat more effective than the red-hot shot they replaced.
This occurs when the rope is threaded in such a way that the rope forces the bars open, instead of holding them closed.
The main difference is that a splitboard will have an additional metal edge (down the center of the board) for extra grip in ski mode.
The Coolflo is a batting helmet designed by Rawlings and first put into regular use during the 2006 Major League Baseball season.
Ditty bag originated as a term around 1860, referring to a bag used by sailors to hold small articles.
The term "gymslip" primarily refers to the school uniform; otherwise the term pinafore dress (British English) or jumper dress (American English) is usually preferred.
improved upon the Springbar design over the years and, from it, created models of varying sizes and features — from a two-person tent to a large modular tent called the Leisure Port, which campers could add rooms onto.
In 2024, the Eredivisie banned artificial turfs, meaning hybrid grass and natural grass became mandatory, starting from the 2025–26 season.
These jerseys are usually made from lightweight synthetic microfiber materials that wick moisture from the skin to aid evaporation, keeping the rider cool and dry.
Uses A holdall is often used in place of a suitcase or for carrying sports equipment, and has the advantage over most suitcases of being compressible when empty.
Technology The InfraStar Bike uses zero-gravity vacuum technology to create negative resistance within its sealed capsule, targeting cellulite reduction in specific areas while improving blood flow and stimulating lymphatic circulation.
It was one of three cases mentioned in the television show Last Week Tonight with John Oliver's civil forfeiture episode, alongside United States v.
Computer-aided maps (digital cartography) Computer software is available to aid in the drawing of digital maps.
Carrot bolt is a metal hex-headed machine bolt used in Australia to function like a bolt but with no fixed bolt hanger attached; climbers attach to the carrot bolt by using a version of a rivet hanger or by attaching a removable bolt hanger plate.
Tanks for octopuses Artificial turf is commonly used for tanks containing octopuses, in particular the Giant Pacific octopus since it is a reliable way to prevent the octopuses from escaping their tank, as they prevent the suction cups on the tentacles from getting a tight seal.
A wetsuit with a very smooth and somewhat delicate outer surface known as smoothskin, which is the original outer surface of the foamed neoprene block from which the sheets are cut, is used for long-distance swimming, triathlon, competitive apnoea, and bluewater spearfishing.
Description Oftentimes bodystockings are made of sheer fabric and are worn with or without undergarments such as a bra.
Alpine snowboards tend to be longer and thinner with a much stiffer flex for greater edge hold and better carving performance.
RBs are used almost exclusively in bolting and cleaning new lines, often steep limestone, which is soft enough to be drilled with relative ease, and is particularly difficult to bolt without some load bearing anchor.
Sled pull The sled pull exercise involves attaching a harness or straps to the sled, or simply grabbing onto it.
big wall climbing A long sustained sheer exposed rock climb with at least 6–10 pitches (over 300–500 metres), that typically takes over a day (if not many days), and requires the hauling of food, water, sleeping bags, and the use of portaledges.
Softer balls that are struck hard (especially squash balls) increase in temperature due to inelastic collision.
Jerseys identify their wearers' names and/or numbers, generally showing the colors and logo of the team.
Xootr (pronounced "zoo-ter") is an American manufacturer of folding kick scooters and was formerly a seller of folding bicycles.
Pull-ups build up several muscles of the upper body, including the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and biceps brachii.
This differs from most spinning tricks due to the active circling motions needed to keep an object spinning.
Jögel is a Russian sportswear company based in Moscow, dedicated to the production of products for association football, basketball, volleyball, futsal and other sports.
bergschrund A crevasse that forms on the upper portion of a glacier where the moving section pulls away from the headwall.
In British English, a holdall (or occasionally hold-all) may be a similar bag but may often have wheels and possibly a telescopic handle.
The United States Navy also turned down Bradner's and Bascom's offer to supply its swimmers and frogmen with the new wetsuits due to concerns that the gas in the neoprene component of the suits might make it easier for naval divers to be detected by underwater sonar.
For example, if Team A scores 12 points in an inning and Team B scores 10 points, then Team A is awarded two points (12 minus 10); whereas if Team A and Team B both score 12 points, the difference is zero, and no one scores.
This left users with only an ankle strap to do up, with the aim being to make the crampon lighter and easier to put on the boot.
Liga de Primera (Official match balls) Primera División de El Salvador (Official match balls) Liga Guate (Official match balls) Basketball national teams Molten was the provider of uniforms to Malaysia's national basketball team at the 2021 FIBA Asia Cup qualification.
A heart rate monitor (HRM) is a personal monitoring device that allows one to measure/display heart rate in real time or record the heart rate for later study.
The Swedish-made Primus 71 and the similar Optimus 80 have a larger fuel tank and are slightly taller and heavier than the Svea.
History In Sweden in the early 1980s, inventor Jan Von Heland got the idea of creating something that skips on water after throwing a Frisbee upside down and noticing it skims the surface of water much like skipping a rock.
There are recorded instances of children fainting and crashing onto hard surfaces while inside the balls, and the U.S.
The MLUs were simple radio beacons, and thus required search and rescuers to use traditional radio direction finding (RDF or DF) equipment to obtain a bearing, but not a precise location, to the beacon.
Resistance bands are simple to use, and their light weight allows people to easily carry them if travelling and continue with routine sessions for strength training.
Some climbers use tape slings to "tie-off" long ice-screws that have not been fully screwed into the ice, to reduce the leverage of a fall, which might bend or break the screw.
For the purpose of these measurements, a "standard man" is assumed to be 25 years old, with a height of 1.73 m and a weight of 73 kg; a "standard woman" is assumed to be 25 years old, with a height of 1.60 m and a weight of 60 kg.
During the 2014 Commonwealth Games, the team of Daniel Lewis called for the decision to be reevaluated after he was ruled out after sustaining a cut during a match.
He made one prototype and tested the product in his clinical practice before being approached to market the product.
The more oxygen-rich air inside the tent is displaced and with it, the excess carbon dioxide exhaled by the occupant(s).
The Indian batter Nariman 'Nari' Contractor had to retire from the game after being hit on the head by a ball in the West Indies in 1962.
These range from simple spring-like devices to computerized electromechanical devices to recirculating-stream swimming pools.
In rehabilitation ankle braces are used to immobilize the ankle in a neutral position, which "theoretically minimizes stress at the repair site".
These pants are often made from a variety of materials, like velvet or satin, and in many color combinations or patterns.
Rowing machines Rowing machines, also named rowers, simulate the body movements of using a rowing boat.
Carlos Manuel de Céspedes, owner of the sugar refinery La Demajagua near Manzanillo, freed his slaves on 10 October 1868.
A survival suit for protecting survivors of a helicopter ditching incident is also known as a helicopter transportation suit (HTS).
The Prince patent was upheld elsewhere and the company became the only highly-successful seller of oversize racquets in their early history.
The project was then handled by a group in New Jersey that redesigned the product to be a single package incorporated into a stand-alone indoor exercise bike.
One boot designed to use the GSB system was the (now discontinued) Scarpa Mirage GTX, a Gore-Tex lined 3-4 season mountaineering boot.
They should not be confused with ringette rings, which are toruses, for use in the sport of ringette.
It is distinct from the inflated exercise ball, which is much lighter and larger which is up to 37 in (95 cm) in diameter.
Dwork also holds the world's only Bachelor of Arts degree for studies in Professional Flying Disc Entertainment and Education, awarded by Hampshire College in 1984.
Wearing As with the Japanese keikogi, the võ phục top should be worn with the left front panel tied over the right.
A Sierra cup, Sierra Club cup, or Appalachian Mountain cup, is a multipurpose utensil designed for camping, hiking, and backpacking.
The Two and a Half Men character Charlie Harper, portrayed by Charlie Sheen, often wears two-tone bowling shirts.
While metal Sierra cups may be used for cooking food or purifying water, they were not designed for this use and do it poorly, as the broad rim increases the time necessary to boil water.
Indoor rowing primarily works the cardiovascular systems with typical workouts consisting of steady pieces of 20–40 minutes.
Work with the ASA and BSI In 2014 Splash About announced that it was working alongside the Amateur Swimming Association and Water Babies to create a new British Standard for baby and Toddler Swimming.
A more expensive option gaining popularity amongst professional athletes is to convert their entire bedroom to altitude.
In October 2019, Kathmandu announced it would buy 100% of Australian surf brand Rip Curl for A$350m.
Toiletry bags vary widely in size, but most are designed to be stored within a primary bag such as a backpack or suitcase.
Balls used in various sports in other parts of the world prior to Columbus were made from other materials such as animal bladders or skins, stuffed with various materials.
Doppelt's company was purchased by Samsonite in the early 1970s, and later acquired by Buxton in 1979.
If used in combination with a drilling partner, the ball machine can be used to develop front-court tactics.
The calf muscles or triceps surae may be stretched by a daily exercise of standing upon a slant board.
COLBERT will rest on springs that are hooked to dampers, which are then connected to a standard-sized rack that has been extensively reinforced in order to handle the power produced by COLBERT users.
The dress was hand-made by Butler's friend Carol Knotts, from a Simplicity Pattern with added lace trim.
Construction In Goma, where chukudus form the "backbone of the local transportation system", chukudus are made of hard mumba wood and eucalyptus wood, with scrap tires for wheel treads.
Gold Weave Cotton: This material is in-between the single and double weave with regards to weight and durability.
Some visors have a very large bill that can shade most of the entire face, while others have a bill similar to that of a baseball cap.
Manufacturers such as Manduka make recycled foam blocks, offering the combination of a light and strong prop with a low ecological impact.
Moon created earlier versions from wood in the late 1980s and 1990s, which he built with British climber Andy Pollitt as rudimentary indoor extreme training climbing walls that could fit into the basement of their house in Sheffield.
The blade should be strong enough to split (reindeer) bones, and tempered to sustain low temperatures.
Some manufacturers specify the size of their beach balls (which is often confused with the diameter) as the tip-to-tip length of a deflated ball (approximately half the circumference), or even the length of the panels before they have their ends cut and joined into a beach ball.
Construction techniques include radio-frequency welding, sewing (a seam-tape is used to seal over needle holes) and gluing.
Some research suggests that certain vibrating machines might help improve strength and balance, but our experts said it's unclear whether the Soloflex would.
A bodystocking differs from a unitard, which is worn as an outfit or article of clothing, and a leotard, which is used as a practice garment or performance costume for acrobats, gymnasts and other similar performers.
Similar large balls were said to have been used in Persia, specifically by Persian wrestlers, as well as by gladiators.
When worn, a canoe pack must ride below the level of the shoulders in order to accommodate the wearer also carrying a canoe.
Interactive materials Researchers at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, an Australian science agency, created a garment that can monitor movement and give feedback.
They make textile floor coverings, curtains, upholstery, decorative fabrics and Artificial turf for sports use.
Career Flying Disc Freestyle World Champion Dwork is a two-time world champion flying disc freestyle athlete.
He moved to North Berwick and after enjoying success in competitions at Dunbar, Hoylake and other courses he took up ballmaking, and also began to enter The Open Championship.
Rubber bands in orthodontics Special rubber bands of medical-grade latex can be used (worn) for orthodontic correction of teeth position together with metal braces or clear aligners to apply additional pressure on the teeth being straightened.
The Springbar tent design has remained largely unchanged over the years and has inspired a number of other Springbar models.
Functions In contrast to most other eye glasses, shooting glasses usually only have one lens that corrects the ametropia of the dominant eye, which is used for aiming.
XXL AS is a Norwegian sporting goods retailer with brick and mortar stores and online stores in the Nordics.
For instance, a loose 'club cut' offering relaxed fit for recreational cyclists, and a form-fitting 'race cut' featuring a tailored fit that is tighter and shorter.
In 1988, Total Gym moved into the physical therapy field, and as of February 2022 most or all of the home equipment line is made in China.
It consists of a small metal plate with a slot that allows a bight of rope to pass through to a locking carabiner and back out.
by the private equity firm Fenway Partners, and served as the holding company for Fenway's two sports properties, Riddell Sports and Bell Sports.
The wrist roller is a device designed for strengthening the forearm muscles together in a rolling-pulling motion.
Purpose-made stand-alone flies are also sometimes referred to as bivouacs, bivvies, tarpaulins, or hootchies.
A dynamic rope is a specially constructed, somewhat elastic rope used primarily in rock climbing, ice climbing, and mountaineering.
This is because juggling balls are the easiest to juggle, can be manufactured (or home-made) in small sizes and light weights, and beanbags can be underfilled to facilitate catching.
Total Gym Direct website (Total Gym Fitness) with home equipment focus., totalgymdirect.com, retrieved on 2022-02-20.
One of the first to use this method was pioneer aerodynamicist George Cayley, who used rubber band-driven motors for powering his small experimental models.
The technique was used extensively in competitive events by John Dwork, Jason Salkey, Richie Smits, Joey Hudoklin, and Randy Silvey.
When not worn as athletic wear, gymslips or pinafore dresses are generally worn over a blouse and replace a skirt.
The simplest and most traditional Duluth pack comprises a single large envelope which is closed by straps and roller buckles.
See also Baseball glove Batting glove Boxing glove Cycling glove Driving glove Goalkeeper glove Golf gloves Glove (ice hockey) MMA gloves Wicket-keeper's gloves == References ==
This was the principle employed by WW2-period British inventor Barnes Wallace when he developed the "bouncing bomb" used in the famous "Dam Busters" raid against the Ruhr District dams.
Common sewn lengths include 10 centimetres (3.9 in), 30 centimetres (12 in), 60 centimetres (24 in), 120 centimetres (47 in) and 240 centimetres (94 in).
Originally, it was intended to be played in confined space or otherwise small area, but became a popular outdoor activity.
Dick's Sporting Goods contacted him to become a retailer of Spikeball equipment in early 2013, followed by Big 5 and Modell's Sporting Goods.
Wheels Xootr wheels were originally sold in two styles: standard (translucent yellow) and ultra (black), with the ultra wheels having 10% lower rolling resistance.
Origins Callahan wasn't able to find suitable chairs for competitive wheelchair basketball, and started building his own in the early 1980s.
This in turn will cause the pressure-relief valve in the filler cap to open and the over-pressurized gas vapor to escape, which may catch fire and result in a dangerous "flareup" or large fireball.
Georges Salomon is credited with taking the company and evolving it toward the global outdoor sports brand it is today.
Some water hogs can suck off excess water at a rate of 200 gallons per minute and throw it as far as 100 feet away from the machine.
Another one is the open-source OpenOrienteering Mapper application, created by the community as a free alternative to OCAD.
The regulations state that pucks should be a bright distinctive colour, for example high-visibility pink or orange, and that for World Championships these are the only acceptable colours.
While different sized sliotars are used for different ages and codes (with, for example, senior camogie games using a "size 4" sliotar, and senior hurling a "size 5" ball), some claims have historically been made of non-standard balls being used to gain a perceived advantage in competition.
Sherburne found his way into golf club fitting in 1998 by helping with club repairs and custom fitting at EJL Golf.
As few were produced and the two that were submitted to the German patent authority disappeared for many years, little is known in the tennis world about the Fortissimo.
For "double" ropes the weight is 55 kg, and for "twin" ropes two strands are used, and the requirements are the same as for a single rope --and twin ropes typically endure more drops.
Soloflex's WBV Platform made news in July 2007 for a Consumer Reports review that demonstrated it had been using claims from research that may not apply to their machine.
To match the leisurely atmosphere of bowling, bowlers began wearing shirts designed explicitly for the sport.
Handle styles Handle selection is primarily an ergonomic preference, though it can impact grip transitions during play: Flared (FL): The most common style, widening at the base to provide a secure grip during high-velocity swings.
Thus, if the camera is too close to the ball lens, the background around the ball will be completely blurred.
drive-by A deadpoint where one arm crosses over the other to reach a hold that is above and to the side.
These systems are also used in the training of athletes, and many add-on products have been developed to assist with this process.
Depending on their specific condition, climbers may utilize adaptive equipment or rely on their upper body strength to climb Autism: The autism category is for climbers with autism spectrum disorder.
The lusikkahaarukka are hard wearing, so much so that new conscripts are still issued with units manufactured during World War II.
The infrared lamps heat the body, encouraging increased sweating to help eliminate residual water and toxins.
This process was chosen as it gave a higher quality for the fine line-work than the industry standard four-colour process (CMYK).
Belts worn with võ phục for Vovinam are similar to those of Japanese martial arts in that they are constructed using the same techniques and materials.
Originally, Trangia stoves were made entirely from aluminium (except for the burner, which has always been brass), in order to keep them lightweight.
Most modern Association footballs are stitched from 32 panels of waterproofed leather or plastic: 12 regular pentagons and 20 regular hexagons are used because of its contrasting colors, which makes it easier for viewers to follow the movement.
However, in 2015, the National Collegiate Athletic Association increased restrictions on men wearing crop tops, which also includes rolling up longer jerseys, giving no reason for the change.
Magazine') test of 21 camp stoves which concluded "For boiling water quickly or washing up there is nothing to beat a Sirram Volcano, either at home or abroad".
Typically made of stamped steel or forged alloy, it has a large hole at the bottom for connecting to one's harness and a smaller hole at the top for attaching a retrieval cord in case of a fall.
Groups scaling Mount Hood are recommended to carry an emergency signaling device and all climbers must register before climbing and sign out upon return.
Ovid emphasizes that Cephalus (who is the narrator of the events) dares not say how he acquired the dog and the javelin from Procris, hinting that Cephalus himself was seduced and tricked in the same manner as he did Procris, like in the versions Antoninus Liberalis and Hyginus related.
Club career Early years Born in Nkawkaw, Dwamena played and trained with the Red Bull Ghana developmental program.
Major Fiennes Cornwallis, born Fiennes Wykeham-Martin (1 November 1831 – 24 April 1867), was a British Army officer and related to the Cornwallis family.
Causes of death during the marathon The most frequent causes are: sudden cardiac death, triggered by a congenital or acquired heart disorder (ion channelopathies); exercise-associated hyponatremia or other electrolyte imbalance; exertional heat stroke or severe hyperthermia.
He had a great opening in One day cricket as he scored 64 in his first match and 102 in his sixth match as he won the man of the series against Australia for scoring 278 runs at an average of 55.60 per innings with a century and 2 fifties.
The ceiling of the Arch is 55 m (170 ft) deep, which requires suitable training and equipment as 40 metres is generally considered the limit for recreational diving.
In 2001, shortly after withdrawing from the 2001 World Championships for disciplinary reasons, he was caught using cocaine in a police razzia.
During his playing career, Raja was known primarily as a dashing middle-order left-handed batsman, with a characteristically generous backlift and breathtaking strokeplay combining a keen eye with wristy execution.
Deaths in motorsport can be categorised as follows: Driver deaths in motorsport This section covers all driver deaths in car or truck racing events.
Politics In 1893, Connor was elected to parliament in a by-election for the seat of East Kimberley, caused by the death of the sitting member, William Baker.
Under Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Möllemann occupied several cabinet positions in the 1980s and early 1990s.
Marriage and family On 25 May 1903 at Vienna, Elias married Archduchess Maria Anna of Austria (1882–1940), daughter of Archduke Friedrich, Duke of Teschen, and a niece of Queen Maria Cristina of Spain.
He studied at Coleridge & Parry School and was part of its athletics team that had won multiple titles during the 1960s; he was teammates with fellow Olympian and sprinter Hadley Hinds.
A second drop, by parachutist Saul Debever and his monkey, was halted under threat of prosecution by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
On September 29, 1988 he successfully jumped 160 feet (49 m) from the Gerald Desmond Bridge in Long Beach, California.
This led to widespread conspiracies, particularly witchcraft, which is a major superstition in western and central Africa.
The film was directed by Austin Sayre, and produced by Three Chords And The Truth, alongside Brian Easley and Stephanie Moore.
Chalibashvili is the only water sports athlete known to have died as a direct result of a mishap during training or competition at an international multi-sport event such as the World University Games, Olympic Games or Commonwealth Games.
They also noted Karns's failure to disclose his equipment's inability to navigate and communicate at the same time.
Weiss also competed in two Summer Olympics, earning his best finish of sixth in the K1 event in Atlanta in 1996.
Zhang Zhijie (simplified Chinese: 张志杰; traditional Chinese: 張志傑; pinyin: Zhāng Zhìjié; 30 January 2007 – 30 June 2024) was a Chinese badminton player.
The position required much tact and skill as a diplomat which Mason carried out successfully, much to the advantage of the Sultan and the state.
In a narrow part of the lower course less than twenty seconds from the finish, Maier's right ski caught an inside edge at 105 km/h (65 mph), possibly from a patch of soft snow, and caused a violent crash which broke her neck.
His best two seasons were 1977 and 1978, finishing runner-up to compatriot Franz Klammer in the downhill standings both years.
He was a runner-up at continental level on three occasions, taking the 800 m silver at the African Championships in Athletics in 2000 and at the All-Africa Games in 2003 and 2007.
Later that year, Cavagnoud was involved in a high-speed collision while training and died two days later.
1855), daughter of John Manners, 5th Duke of Rutland, by whom he had three children: Archibald Henry Plantagenet Stuart-Wortley (26 July 1832 – 30 April 1890), married on 15 June 1879 Lavinia Rebecca Gibbins (d.
He arrived in Sydney, Australia, in 1885, and from there went to Wyndham, a small town in Western Australia's Kimberley region.
In 1119, possibly inspired by the news of the defeat of crusader forces at the Battle of the Field of Blood, and at a time when Pope Callixtus II was nearby in France, Fulk decided to take the cross as a crusader.
Exhibition Andreasen was also noted for his exhibition diving, showcasing his talents at the dedication ceremonies for the Peck Park swimming pool in San Pedro in 1962.
He represented the district of Lake Melville in the Newfoundland and Labrador House of Assembly from 2003 to 2011.
The young people who died had approached the area to hunt rabbits that were escaping from the fire, but a change in the wind direction spread the flames rapidly, and they were unable to get out of the burning plantation.
Laboratory tests of the parachute straps revealed that fibres from the severed risers were present on Hilder's body, while DNA tests on the parachute straps revealed the presence of Hilder's DNA alone.
The ball was bowled by his younger brother Clive Smith, who later played football for North Melbourne.
Borcke commanded the Prussian 9th Infantry Brigade of the Third Corps during the Hundred Days Campaign against Napoleon and fought in the battle of Ligny and was then the commander of the Fortress of Luxembourg in 1815.
List Background shading indicates the individual was not practicing or participating in sport skiing.
The second major risk arises from imbalanced fluid or electrolyte levels, particularly hyponatremia (sodium deficiency, overhydration, or water intoxication).
Richardson made her Broadway debut in 1993 in the title role of Anna Christie, which is where she met future husband Liam Neeson.
He is known for breaking the land speed record three times and being the first man to break the 100 km/h barrier.
In the year 1691, Aylva commanded the armed forces of the Dutch Republic in Brabant, and had his quarters in Leuven.
References External links Vougiouklaki Penelope, "John I Grand Komnenos", Encyclopedia of the Hellenic World: Asia Minor
The league also instituted a program that would allow key personnel to have access to a standard set of medical information about all players in the league, dubbed a "medical passport." After his death, the New York Rangers sought compensation in the form of an extra draft pick from the NHL.
He competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics and his best international achievement was a sixth place at the 2003 World Indoor Championships.
Having studied for a diploma in education at Ulster University, Milling moved into the teaching profession.
However,Scott Sorenson, the lodge owner who rescued the survivors and testified at the inquest, takes a very different point of view in his book.
2002: Ranked #1 in Powder Magazine’s Reader Poll and invented a revolutionary powder ski: The Volant Spatula with reverse camber and reverse sidecut.
He inherited the Lawrenny, Rosemarket, and Nash estates in 1851 on the death of Sir William Owen-Barlow, 8th Baronet.
List of rotational falls resulting in fatalities Australia On 6 March 2016 Olivia Inglis was fatally injured when she and her horse Coriolanus fell at the second fence of a combination during the cross country phase of Scone Horse Trials in New South Wales.
In 1909 he developed a keen interest in the newborn Corpo Aeronautico Militare ("Military Aviation Corps") of the Regio Esercito (Italian Royal Army), joining many aviation pioneers.
Officials who worked in notable high level amateur sports (such as NCAA Division I college sports and Major Junior ice hockey), and officials who worked world championship or Olympic/Paralympic events shortly before their deaths are treated as professional.
Charles Leroux was an inventor at heart, independently making numerous improvements to his balloon and parachute.
Major results References External links Wouter Weylandt at UCI Wouter Weylandt at Cycling Archives Wouter Weylandt at ProCyclingStats Wouter Weylandt at Cycling Quotient
During his reign the Mahavamsa chronicle was continued from the time of Parakramabahu IV of Dambadeniya.
In December 1948, he graduated from advanced training of division commanders at the Frunze Military Academy.
After he played on the freshman football squad for the 1963 season, Dowdy stated as an offensive tackle for the three years that followed.
His funeral took place on 17 March at the Royal Military Academy in Sandhurst, with the Queen, the Prince and Princess of Wales, and the Duke and Duchess of York attending.
Coombs Outdoors was established in 2013 to offer children from low-income families the guidance, support, and equipment required to participate in the amazing outdoor adventure experiences and sports activities that define the Jackson Community.
Albert Lucas (September 1, 1978 – April 10, 2005) was an American professional football player who played in the National Football League (NFL) and Arena Football League (AFL).
The Spanish and their allies arrived at the lakeshore after a day's hard march, without encountering any opposition.
In 1921 it was said that he was one of the most dangerous batsmen in England that is not quite first class, but his defence was not sound enough to bring him consistent success against the best bowlers.
Mann was elected as a Democrat to the 66th Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Asbury Francis Lever and served from October 7, 1919, to March 3, 1921.
Boudgie, an African parachuting monkey, received a North Africa campaign ribbon and was credited with saving the life of her handler four times.
In his last year as a junior, Toledo won the silver medal in the 2012 World Junior Championships in Athletics in Barcelona.
According to the results of an autopsy, Bowie died as a result of complications related to childbirth, among which were eclampsia, respiratory distress and high blood pressure.
He was educated at Wellington College from 1908 to 1912, before going up to the Royal Military College, Sandhurst in 1913.
In 2011 Braian protagonized a publicity spot for the campaign of Cristina Fernández de Kirchner in the presidential elections.
International competitions 1Did not finish in the final References External links Nicholas Bett at World Athletics
During his professional boxing career, he earned an associate degree in nutrition from Nassau Community College, and a bachelor's degree in health and wellness from Kaplan University.
He also travelled extensively to do research on snowfall and glaciers in Greenland, Alaska, and notably the Blue Glacier on Mount Olympus in Washington.
He scored his first goal for the club and the second of his career on 15 August 2015; a late penalty in a 2–0 victory at home to Stuttgarter Kickers.
In order to further legitimatize his rule as duke, he married Gisela of Swabia, the eldest sister of Hermann.
Biography George Lort Phillips was born in Stokenham, Devon, the eldest son of John Lort Philipps by his marriage to Augusta Ilbert.
Lamba left Gaekwad in the shade with 320 in 720 minutes which was scored off 471 balls including six 6s and thirty 4s.
Other examples of the genre include Pamphilus and Eurydice (the earliest identified example), and Cyanippus and Leucone.
Dallas was awarded the Military Cross in October 1916 for conspicuous gallantry while undertaking duties as a Forward Observation Officer, for which he was wounded twice.
International career Foé began representing Cameroon at under-20s when he was called up to the squad of 18 players for the 1993 FIFA World Youth Championship in Australia, under the management of Jean Manga-Onguéné.
On August 6, 2008, he completed the first "FreeBASE" ascent of Deep Blue Sea on the north face of the Eiger.
Later in 1935, an article in Popular Science featured a successful Soviet experimental parachute for a locked coop for dogs that sprang open when it hit the ground.
Big wall In July 2006, Potter climbed The Reticent Wall, one of the hardest routes on El Capitan in Yosemite Valley, in 34 hours and 57 minutes with Ammon McNeely and Ivo Ninov, slashing five days off the existing time.
In the First World War, he served in the Royal Garrison Artillery, from 1915, and was promoted to Company Quartermaster Sergeant in 1916 until being discharged due to 'disability' in 1919.
Peralta was one of the most prominent supporters of the government of General Francisco Morazán, who rose to power on 12 April 1842.
In January 1840 the Texas Congress elected him to serve as judge of the Sixth Judicial District, an appointment which also made him an associate justice of the Texas Supreme Court.
He has destroyed ten enemy machines, and shown the greatest determination at his work." Post-war After the war Mauduit returned to his cavalry regiment, the 7th Dragoon Guards, in which he was promoted to captain on 20 November 1919.
Competition record References External links Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at IMDb Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at World Athletics Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at Olympics at Sports-Reference.com (archived) Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at Olympics.com
Aftermath and accusations of witchcraft After the strike, all members of the Basanga team had been completely unscathed, while their opponents lay dead on the pitch.
The number of Blue Hole fatalities is not accurately recorded; one source estimates 130 divers died during the fifteen-year period from 1997 to 2012, averaging over eight per year, another claims as many as 200.
* – Most laps led.) Winston Cup Series Daytona 500 Busch Series Winston West Series Busch North Series International Race of Champions ARCA Hooters SuperCar Series 24 Hours of Daytona See also Dale Earnhardt, Inc.
References External links Media related to Les McKeand at Wikimedia Commons Leslie 'Les' McKeand at Australian Athletics Historical Results
See also List of members of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine who died in office References External links Official website of Ihor Yeremeyev Archived 2014-03-04 at the Wayback Machine (in Ukrainian)
An underdog at the 1972 Olympics in Munich in September, Prefontaine took the lead in the 5,000 m final during the last mile and ended the slow pace of the first two miles, negative splitting the race.
Aftermath Rostom suspected his heir's death was not an accident and requested an inquiry from Isfahan, but nothing came of this as the shah's government was preoccupied with the war in Kandahar.
He set a new personal best time in the men's 400 metres at a competition in 1972, recording a time of 47.2 seconds.
29 March 1912), married on 4 July 1863 Sir William Earle Welby-Gregory, 4th Baronet He died in 1844 of the effects of a hunting accident suffered earlier in life.
Representing the Central YMCA, Duffy came in second in the 1911 Ward Marathon, a 20-mile (32 km) event in Toronto.
A week prior to his win at the world championships in 1978, Walcher won consecutive downhills at Kitzbühel, Austria.
He wrote the short travelogue Cesta do Lužic vykonaná na jar 1839 ("A journey to Lusatia made in the spring of 1839"), written in Czech and published in the Czech journal Časopis českého musea.
McWethy was born in Aurora, Illinois, and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1969 from DePauw University, where he was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity.
Free scores by Mieczysław Karłowicz at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP) Complete CD discography of Karłowicz up to 2009 "Karłowicz's Stone - the last itinerary of Mieczyslaw Karłowicz (music, photos, videos, maps)".
This record was again broken by Chasseloup-Laubat, who applied rudimentary streamlining to his Jeantaud.
Legacy Saborios's rebellion did not result in any territorial losses for Byzantium, but was important nonetheless as the first attested rebellion of a thematic force, heralding a number of similar revolts during the remainder of the 7th and throughout the 8th centuries.
Tom Compernolle (13 November 1975 – 16 June 2008) was a Belgian runner, who specialized in the 5000 metres.
See also Victoria Cilliers, skydiver who survived a murder attempt on her in 2015 Death of Stephen Hilder, in a parachute incident in 2003 == References ==
Media The incident was covered by the BBC's Crimewatch in an episode aired on 24 July 2003, and by ITV Studios in a 2011 documentary titled Real Crime: Sky Diver Murder or Suicide?
In 1592, Manuchar married his second wife Tamar (born 1561), daughter of Kaikhosro II Jaqeli, Prince of Samtskhe and widow of the nobleman Kaikhosro Oravzhandashvili and of Vakhtang I Gurieli, Prince of Guria.
Smith died on 27 October 1941 as a result of an injury sustained while batting in a cricket match for Werribee South two days earlier.
Brathwaite's son Sean became a police officer, serving the Eugene Police Department and the University of Oregon Police Department.
Niels Baunsøe clutched his jersey, keeping him from falling, while Vagn Bangsborg held Enemark Jensen from the other side.
John Lewis Dodge (April 27, 1893 – June 19, 1916) was an American third baseman in Major League Baseball from 1912 until 1913.
On 23 January 2020, a fire was started in the Agrícola del Lago reed bed in Cagua, Aragua state, Venezuela.
The plane, which had not been modified for skydiving, became overloaded toward the rear when they initially attempted to load it with all comers, and so less experienced divers were asked to make way for the 20 most experienced.
She claimed her second national title at the 2017 National Athletics Championships which she successfully defended.
Kushnaryov entered the Odessa Institute of Civil Engineering, but after the first year, by decision of his father, he transferred to the Kharkov Institute of Civil Engineering, which he graduated in 1973, receiving a degree in mechanical engineering.
After the death of his father (1662), his older brother Johann Ernst II inherited Weimar, and his second brother Adolf Wilhelm received Eisenach.
British forces were fighting to stabilise the British line and the Northumbrian Division's units were thrown in piecemeal.
NFL career statistics Death On April 10, 2005, in a game against the New York Dragons, Lucas tackled Corey Johnson during a kickoff return with 10:17 to go in the first quarter.
According to the historian Oscar Halecki, Louis wished to divide his kingdoms between his two surviving daughters, but Pál Engel and Claude Michaud write that the ailing king wanted to bequeath both Hungary and Poland on Mary and Sigismund.
In addition, there has been widespread condemnation in China over the actions of the medical staff at the venue.
List Non-health-related marathon fatalities See also Phidippides cardiomyopathy Lists of sportspeople who died during their careers References Further reading Burfoot, Amby.
He played a single first-class cricket match for the Gentlemen of the South against the Gentlemen of the North at Beeston in 1870, batting once in the match and being dismissed without scoring by A.
Their plan was to accomplish the first descent of a 140-mile (225 km) section of the Tsangpo, passing the deepest river gorge on earth, the more than 4877 meter (16,000 ft) deep gorge between 7782-meter Namjagbarwa Feng and 7194-meter Gyala Peri.
References External links Official website Sarah Burke Foundation Sarah Burke, Game Designer Archived July 21, 2018, at the Wayback Machine – The Ski Channel wrote a story on 06/18/09 about Sarah's new video game, LittleBigPlanet.
His best chance to medal was in 1960 at Squaw Valley, but he broke his right leg while slalom training in Aspen in December 1959, just two months before the games.
He had been participating in a week-long British Collegiate Parachute Association championship skydiving competition with his "Black Rain" teammates and fellow officer cadets, Adrian Blair and David Mason (both aged 19), who had all made over 200 jumps each.
When Leo was born, Michael III celebrated the event with public chariot races, whilst he pointedly instructed Basil not to presume on his new position as junior emperor.
According to the official version, Frédéric Vandewalle wrote, Samalenge was the victim of a hunting accident caused by a member of his cabinet, but the public rumour suggested an assassination.
The family has roots in the African city of Freetown, Sierra Leone where relative Joseph Kpana-Quamoh attended Albert Academy before immigrating to America and earning degrees from Lipscomb University and Fisk University.
Robert Allen Gutowski (25 April 1935 – 2 August 1960) was an American athlete who competed mainly in the pole vault.
High school See also Sudden cardiac death of athletes Kobe Bryant, 41, died in a helicopter crash alongside his 13-year-old daughter Gianna and seven other individuals.
To strengthen Mary's position against Charles of Naples, Queen Elizabeth sent her envoys to France and opened negotiations on the marriage of Mary to the younger brother of Charles VI of France, Louis, who had once been engaged to Mary's sister, Catherine.
After the attack on Shamrock, Hart became the co-leader, with The Rock, of the Nation of Domination, claiming that "Enough is enough and it's time for a change".
Although Menes does not appear on extant pieces of the Royal Annals (Cairo Stone and Palermo Stone), his name appears in later sources as the first ruler of Egypt.
In the meantime, Prince Shiosh Baratashvili denounced Prince Baindur Tumanishvili as a possible murderer and had him publicly tried by single combat in Tbilisi.
Brian Faulkner was a member of the Apprentice Boys of Derry but was expelled from the group in 1971.
His 320 in the Duleep Trophy for North Zone against West Zone in the final at Bhilai in 1986-87 still remains among the highest individual scores.
The following year he played in what would be his only match in first-class cricket, against Scotland at Coleraine.
Edward Randle "Ed" LaChapelle (May 31, 1926 – February 1, 2007) was an American avalanche researcher, glaciologist, mountaineer, skier, author, and professor.
He made two further appearances in List A cricket, against Northamptonshire in the 1987 NatWest Trophy, and Gloucestershire in the 1988 NatWest Trophy.
Over the next two seasons, he averaged less than thirty with the ball, taking 129 wickets, and in one match, had match figures of 12/57.
In 2005, during the referendum campaign on registered partnership in Switzerland for same-sex couples, Nobs came out publicly to support the new law.
The son of Charles Mowbray Dallas and his wife Catherine, he was born in British India at Kasauli in August 1895.
Bett began to compete on the international track and field circuit in 2015 and had wins at the Savo Games and Lappeenranta Games in Finland.
Olympic results ^ Walcher made the downhill team in 1980 but was dropped the day before the race, replaced by alternate Leonhard Stock, who won the gold medal.
He also competed in Belgium's domestic cross country series, the Lotto Cross Cup, and won the series in the 1999–2000 season.
The piece describes Raja’s instinct to dominate from the outset and his dazzling left-handed strokeplay, high backlift powering fierce square-cuts, cover drives, pulls and hooks, contrasting his power with a lean, wiry build.
Sir Frank Cecil Meyer, 2nd Baronet (7 May 1886 – 19 October 1935) was a British businessman and Conservative Party politician.
Born in Lowndesville, South Carolina, Mann attended the common schools and was graduated from The Citadel, Charleston, South Carolina, in 1901.
Jorma Rainer Valkama (4 October 1928 – 11 December 1962) was a Finnish athlete who competed mainly in the long jump and participated at three Olympic Games.
He was called into the senior team as part of the 30-man squad for the 2017 African Cup of Nations but was dropped from the 23-man squad.
Coach After retiring from playing football, Ehrhardt became a football coach at Decatur High School in Decatur, Georgia, where he also taught math, physical education, and was the assistant principal.
After he was traded to the Cincinnati Reds for Beals Becker, Dodge played all of his games at third base.
Playing career College After a successful high school playing career at Cherokee Vocational High School that culminated with his selection to the 16th annual AHSAA All-Star Game in 1963, Dowdy enrolled at the University of Alabama with an athletic scholarship to play on the football team.
There, tributes in the shape of funerary wreaths from those in the bullfighting world wishing to express their condolences began to arrive in considerable numbers.
* : Member of the Hockey Hall of Fame World War I World War II Two National Hockey League players were killed in World War II.
Notes References Clive Dunn, The Fighting Pioneers: the Story of the 7th Durham Light Infantry, Barnsley: Pen & Sword, 2015, ISBN 978-1-47382-348-8.
To save up money DeAndre took a job at a Kroger supermarket located at 3410 Gallatin Pike down the street from his family's home.
Examination by physicians, however, showed that his face was crushed in such a manner that complications might result and he was taken to a hospital, but nothing medical aid could do would save his life." Dodge died the following night, at the age of 23.
He suffered from mononucleosis the following season, but returned strong beating Roger Moens's 1955 national 800 m record.
He also had three quarterback sacks, three fumble recoveries (one for a touchdown), two batted down passes, a forced fumble, and a safety.
Sad news to my soul..." Personal bests 800 metres – 1:42.86 min (2009) 800 metres (indoor) – 1:44.91 min (2008) 1000 metres – 2:15.86 min (2007) 1500 metres – 3:38.55 min (2008) Honours Mulaudzi was awarded the Order of Ikhamanga in bronze (posthumously) in 2015.
He participated in a battle against the Seljuk Sultan near Tikrit and saved Zengi's life when he assisted his retreat across the Tigris.
In June 1936, he became the chief of staff of the 1st Airborne Regiment and its commander in August 1937.
When they realised it was Jenatzy, they rushed him to hospital by car; he bled to death en route, fulfilling his own prophecy he would die in a Mercedes.
Biography Borcke was born in Stargard, Province of Pomerania, Kingdom of Prussia (today Poland) to Ernst Gottlieb Kurt von Borcke (1757–1816) and Anna Margarethe née Greinert (1750–1804).
His son, Abd al-Rahman ibn Mu'awiya, was the founder of the Emirate of Córdoba and the Umayyad line of al-Andalus.
The following year he took the field with South Melbourne and played eight games in his first season and one more in 1905.
All cases in the list below are from alpine or downhill skiing activities; no skiers have been known to have died in any major international ski jumping competitions (e.g.
Herbert Frederick Lemp (June 24, 1884 – May 6, 1927) served briefly as mayor of Boise, Idaho, before his death in May 1927.
Like most of the late Romantics he also fell under the considerable influence of Richard Wagner, especially with Tristan und Isolde.
Ian Victor Gillibrand (24 November 1948 – 2 September 1989) was an English football defender who spent his entire senior career with Wigan Athletic.
Death Chalibashvili died at the age of 21 following an accident during competition at the 1983 Summer Universiade in Edmonton, Alberta, when he hit his head on the platform while attempting a reverse 3½ somersault in the tuck position.
Scurry (November 11, 1811 – April 9, 1862) was a Texas politician and a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives.
The resort was fined $50,000 for multiple violations, including lack of hazard evaluation, improper training, and missing warning signs.
Srikkanth, he remained on the field even though Srikkanth had already arrived on the field quietly, without requesting Raman Lamba to go back to the pavilion.
Olympic debut Goumri improved one place to 14th in the long race at the 2004 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, but the Moroccans were edged into fourth by the Eritrean team.
Muslim sources attribute to him the capture of the fortress of Charsianon in September/October 730, but Byzantine sources state that this was done by Mu'awiya's uncle, Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik.
His finish in the 1992 Olympics in Barcelona was mired in controversy when the television replay showed a judge's error cost him a bronze medal.
It was filmed in Los Angeles and featured Jimi Hendrix's cover of Bob Dylan's "All Along the Watchtower".
This list only includes active drivers who died due to circumstances outside of a NASCAR race, and includes full-time, part-time, suspended, or partially-retired drivers.
At city marathons, Syster finished fifth in the 2002 London Marathon, and won the Beijing Marathon the following year.
Driver and co-driver deaths in rallying events Rallying is an offroad motorsport, generally featuring a number of timed stages on varying surfaces to crown an overall winner.
But he returned to competitive athletics and at the World Masters Athletics Championships in 2018 he took gold in the M45 100 m in a new British record, and also won the 4 × 100 m relay.
Investigation In the immediate aftermath of Cherepanov's death, there were many conflicting reports and accusations.
4271 on 24 February 1917, after flying the L & P Biplane at the London & Provincial School at Hendon Aerodrome.
He was educated at Harrow School, where he played for the cricket eleven, before going up to St John's College, Oxford.
Throughout his time in parliament he sat on the opposition benches, with the government being led by the Liberals with Palmerston and later Russell as Prime Minister.
Krenz continued his throwing career after graduating from Stanford, joining the San Francisco Olympic Club.
Rajesh Ghodge (15 January 1975 – 13 January 2019) was an Indian cricketer who played in two first-class and eight List A matches for Goa between 1997 and 2005.
References External links Official Site Archived 3 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine Official player profile on TSW Pegasus FC website
He was also a coach for the Pakistan Under-19 team, and an International Cricket Council match referee in 15 Tests and 34 ODIs from 2002 to 2004.
At 17, he became the youngest to climb the Seven Summits, a record now held by Jordan Romero at 15 years, 5 months and 12 days.
Biography In 1987 his 7:47.61 on the 3000 metres indoor was the second best season performance at the world.
Contemporaries of William raised concerns about a court dominated by homosexuality and effeminacy, epitomised more through seemingly "luxurious" attire and unusual footwear than with sexual practices.
Reported missing in action serving under German command in Broasca, Romania, on the Eastern Front on 23 August 1944 aged 30.
On 17 February 1973, he died in the morning after he had lost control of his car and had struck a utility pole, hurling him out the car.
The entry to the Arch is not easy to find because of the indirect line between the Blue Hole and open water.
Some suffered sudden cardiac death, which has a higher incidence in basketball among young athletes.
International career Whilst in Sri Lanka, Slack was rushed to the West Indies during England's 1985–86 tour to replace the injured Mike Gatting.
In a 1636 court case concerning a tithe dispute, a witness called Henry Mabbinck testified that he played cricket "in the Parke" at West Horsley in Surrey.
He was the Trinidad and Tobago 100/200 metres champion in 1978, and he won these titles again in 1983.
National Football League 1920–1965 1966–1995 1996–2021 2022–present Canadian Football League Minor league football and indoor football College Team vehicle and plane crashes Purdue: 14 members of football team were killed in a railroad collision (1903).
These areas are supported by applying financial metrics such as revenue and operating income to each one.
In order to be considered for the making of the list, the competition must be open to athletes from nations across every continent, with no cultural, geographical, political or other sort of limitation preventing participation of athletes.
Common systems include polls of expert voters, crowdsourcing non-expert voters, betting markets, and computer systems.
In May 2021, Genius Sports acquired Second Spectrum, a company specialising in providing data tracking and visualisation solutions to sports leagues, teams and broadcasters.
The system is designed to be both predictive and retrodictive in nature, although in practice it has proven to be more strongly predictive than retrodictive.
The Shanghai Dragons have the most midseason tournament titles (5), the most played matches (22), won the most matches (17), and logged the most maps wins (64).
Bois charted the history of scorelines in the NFL and noted gaps in the chart for various scorelines that have never occurred, dubbing these potential "scorigamis".
For the 2018 NHL Global Series, the Florida Panthers and Winnipeg Jets played two games at Hartwall Arena in Helsinki, Finland on November 1 and 2, 2018, with both teams splitting the hosting duties as the home team.
This is a list of the oldest documented football competitions, played at school, club, national and international levels.
Number one by year In 2016, the NFL's Dallas Cowboys simultaneously became both the first team to surpass $4 billion in value and the first non–association football team to top the ranking since its inception in 2010.
In 2021, Livesport became the general partner of the WTA tennis tournament currently branded as Livesport Prague Open.
Basketball and 3x3 basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
This is a list of Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) franchise post-season appearance streaks.
Wade went on to hold the record outright for over 15 years after he scored his seventh try on 2 January 1886 against Wales.
The Japan Pro Wrestling Alliance (JWA) and World Wrestling Council (WWC) are tied for the second highest number of shows with 5 each.
Again, the maximum total number of people can refer to either the physical space available or limitations set by law.
The equations driving the algorithm are shown briefly, written on the window; however, they are slightly incorrect.
Overview Most popular sports are both spectator and participant, for example association football, basketball, cricket, tennis, rugby, golf, athletics and volleyball.
After her initial success in her native country she was campaigned internationally, winning major races in France, Sweden, Denmark and Italy.
In August 1986, she won the Grade II Chula Vista Handicap on a track that was hard, and in 1987 she won the Santa Maria Handicap (Grade II).
It was originally involved in content distribution, subscription, advertising and sponsorship, and technology and production.
A career sire of 90 Graded stakes race winners, Deputy Minister was the leading sire in North America in 1997 and 1998.
After losing the second heat, Speedy Somolli captured the third in 1:57 to win the $120,640 first prize.
Using one or a few star players, the team can suffer if the player has a bad game, or if they play a turn-taking sport such as baseball.
a First round in the 1982 playoffs for the Vikings, Bengals, Falcons, Chargers, Cardinals, Browns, and Lions.
Adjusted Plus-Minus (often abbreviated APM) is a basketball analytic that attempts to predict the impact of an individual player on the scoring margin of a game by controlling for the rest of the players on the court at any given time.
Speedy Somolli was out of Somolli, a Star's Pride mare picked by Howard Beissinger for Barbara Mumma after she proved unsuitable for racing and was bred to Speedy Crown.
He collected his first Grade I win on September 1, 2007, while setting a new stakes record in the Forego Handicap at Saratoga Race Course.
In the voting for the 2007 American Champion Sprint Horse award, Midnight Lute received 229 of the 267 votes.
League records La Liga Segunda División All-time table The all-time table is an overall record of all match results, points, and goals of every team that has played in Segunda División since its inception in 1929.
The company appears to have ceased operations, as other companies and technologies proved competitive, and is no longer listed on the OTC stock exchange.
While the current Ottawa Senators have never won the Stanley Cup since inception of franchise in 1992–93, Ottawa celebrated 11 Stanley Cup championships with the original era Ottawa Senators, the last one in 1927.
In Europe, according to the ‘IJF’, there is a difference between each grade belts' marking by the difference in length of the alternating white-red coloured blocks of the coral belt, as in “the more blocks in your belt, the higher the grade,” (e.g.
It was an ungraded race for its first two editions in 2008 and 2009, became a Grade III race in 2010 and was upgraded to GII status for 2011.
In 2001, however, the company signed a 5-year contract with Major League Baseball to use its pitch tracking technology as a means to review the performance of home plate umpires during baseball games.
Indoor sports Gallery The association football clubs with the highest average home attendance for domestic league games in the 2022–23 season are included.
She went on to win the Ballycullen Stakes, Brownstown Stakes and Desmond Stakes before being sent to California to compete in the November 4, 1990, Grade I Yellow Ribbon Invitational Stakes at Santa Anita Park.
157 – Harvey Wylie 151 – Gene Gaines 147 – Don Sutherin Most interception return yards, single game 151 – Marvin Coleman (November 4, 1995) 116 – Kenny Wheaton (November 5, 2004) 115 – Alfred Jordan (November 2, 1997) 106 – Greg Peterson (November 15, 1987) 103 – Glenn Rogers Jr.
This is a list of Canadian Football League playoff records that are effective as of the end of the 2025 CFL season.
He is the damsire of The Minstrel as well as the damsire of Northern Taste, who led the Japanese leading sires list for ten years, and topped the broodmare sires list a number of times.
As the UIS controversy died down and the statistics accumulated, it became clear that the UIS was accomplishing its basic goals of narrowing the strike zone closer to the width of the plate and returning both lower and higher strikes that were typically not called before the system was introduced.
Basketball, 3x3 basketball and wheelchair basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Ridden by jockey Charles Borel, Omar Khayyam unleashed a powerful stretch run to come from tenth place to win over the favorite Ticket.
List of the top 30 most attended tournaments † = team won the championship as host See also List of IIHF World Championship medalists Ice Hockey World Championships == References ==
Winter, Edward (2003), A Chess Omnibus, Milford, Connecticut: Russell Enterprises, Inc., ISBN 1-888690-17-8 Winter, Edward (2008).
The Pelicans have also recorded both the fewest wins (878) and losses (1,054) in the regular season history.
Ice hockey Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Often teams in the same league, who are compared against each other for championship or playoff consideration, have not played the same opponents.
Promoters would attempt to sign the leading amateur to a contract with a minimum guarantee against a percentage of gate receipts, making a similar type of deal with the reigning professional champion and sometimes giving smaller percentages to undercard players.
Indoor volleyball, beach volleyball and sitting volleyball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
He collected $13,700 after he covered the mile oval in 1:59.3 in the final heat, surpassing the 2:00.1 mark set by Nevele Pride in 1967.
The Utah Mammoth, being the most recent established NHL team and the only team to never qualify for the playoffs, have the fewest playoff games played (0).
After the race, Deputy Minister was diagnosed with a severely bruised and wrenched right front ankle.
He became the first two-year-old trotter ever to break the two-minute barrier at the Illinois State Fairgrounds Racetrack.
Pan American Games records in the sport of track cycling are ratified by the Confederación Panamericana de Ciclismo (COPACI).
Partnerships and corporate social responsibility Livesport is a general partner of EDUin, a non-profitable organisation focused on education.
Therefore, playing a team in the SEC would likely increase a team's SOS as compared to playing a team in the MAC-EAST.
The fastest times in the swimming events at the Southeast Asian Swimming Championships are designated as the Southeast Asian Swimming Championships records in swimming in seniors.
Happy Saver and Hot Rod Charlie took runs at Life Is Good in the early stretch but could not pass him, with Hot Rod Charlie finishing third in a time of 1:48.97.
The Best Theoretical Novelties contains the games with the ten highest-ranked theoretical novelties (TNs) that appeared in each of Volumes 11 through 110 of Chess Informant.
Records can be set in long course (50 metres) or short course (25 metres) swimming pools, with records currently recorded in the following events for both men and women.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records by teams that played in the Canadian Football League as well as the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union and the Western Interprovincial Football Union that preceded it.
For players with ratings below 2000, winning a cash prize of $2,000 or more raises that player's rating floor to the closest 100-point level that would have disqualified the player for participation in the tournament.
The company forced Canada's three major promotions, Lutte Internationale, Maple Leaf Wrestling, and Stampede Wrestling, out of business during this period.
Following a match involving a brawl through the crowd, The Undertaker finally pinned Triple H after using the Last Ride.
Individual sport *Sports (and classes, disciplines or forms of a sport) shown in bold are currently on the program of the Olympic Games.
This is a list of countries according to the best position achieved by athletes of these nations at major world tournaments in roller hockey.
1 at $1.25 billion, are among the men's professional leagues that could not break into this year's ranking.No league, however, compares to the NFL, which has 30 of its 32 teams among the top 50—everyone except the $5.3 billion New Orleans Saints and the $5.25 billion Cincinnati Bengals.
Data about weather, injuries, or "throw-away" games near season's end may affect game outcomes but are difficult to model.
He also placed in several graded stakes, including the Malibu Stakes (3rd, Grade I) and the San Fernando Stakes (2nd, Grade II) at Santa Anita Park.
Continuous clubs Supported by the Guinness Book of Records, and founded by staff at Guy's Hospital in London in 1843, the Guy's, Kings and St Thomas' RFC would be the oldest "football" club of any code.
Rugby union and rugby sevens Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
ESPN has been the presenting sponsor since 2010, and the conference has garnered national attention through media outlets such as Sports Illustrated, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Boston Globe, Time, BusinessWeek, NBC Sports, Fox Sports, Pardon the Interruption, and Forbes.
Sport-specific analytic tools and measurements Major League Baseball (MLB) Early history Baseball was one of the first sports to embrace sports analytics with Earnshaw Cook publishing Percentage Baseball in 1964.
Forego started 1974 in Florida with wins in the Donn Handicap, Gulfstream Park Handicap and Widener Handicap.
NCAA Division I FBS football has the 2nd highest average attendance worldwide for any league-wide sport (behind the National Football League) and the 2nd highest overall attendance worldwide (behind Major League Baseball).
He was sired by the Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner Real Quiet and was out of the mare Candytuft.
(International Professional Tennis Players Association) established a series of 17 tournaments in U.S.
Additional applications In addition to head-to-head winning probability, a general formula can be applied to calculate head-to-head probability of outcomes such as batting average in baseball.
As of the end of the 2025 CFL season, the active head coach with the most wins is Mike O'Shea, who has 117 wins and 77 losses.
Preseason seedings disappear over the course of the season, and are completely absent from consideration by the time the season ends.
Longest NFL / AFL / Super Bowl championship droughts through history This list only shows droughts of 30 or more seasons for teams.
Genius Sports also provides sports leagues with tracking technology, capturing detailed positional data on players and the ball to create insights and analysis for partners including the WNBA.
All eight participants were members of a student rowing club called VSR (Vlaamse Studentenvereniging der Roeiers [translates to Flanders Student Rowing Club]).
References External links The Fountain of Youth Stakes at the NTRA The Fountain of Youth Stakes at Pedigree Query
Highest and lowest season home totals, by team The following shows the highest and lowest season home totals by team since 1903, excluding the 1918, 1981, 2020, and 2021 seasons.
She was the richest trotter of the season and richest Standardbred in the history of harness racing.
Aside from the WNBA Playoff appearance droughts, this list also includes appearances in the WNBA Finals and WNBA championships win streak.
The Buffalo Sabres played one home game against the Anaheim Ducks at Hartwall Areena in Helsinki, Finland.
Champion Older Male Horse and United States Horse of the Year for 1913, but no formal voting or awards took place at the time.
Louis Cardinals (twice, 2000 to 2006 and 2009 to 2015), Red Sox (2003 to 2009), and Brewers (2018 to 2025) appeared in 7 of 8 postseasons, while the Phillies (1976 to 1983) and Angels (2002 to 2009) appeared in 6 of 8 postseasons.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Jordanian Weightlifting Federation.
The following is a list of all the occasions in which a golfer has won eight or more tournaments on the PGA Tour in a season.
Several prominent owners moved the bulk of their operations overseas, with Europe being a popular destination.
In 1968–69, the two pro tennis tours, the NTL and the WCT, each had a tournament series ranking list which contributed four players from each tour to a combined final tournament at the Madison Square Garden.
Forty-nine points are awarded to the champion of each of its three Major Events – The Lakeside World Professional Championship, The Bavaria World Darts Trophy and the Winmau World Masters and A+ events.
Hogan and Demaret played in only 2 of Nelson's 11 straight tournament wins and Mangrum played in none.
Deputy Minister originally raced for the Levys, who sold a half interest to Kinghaven Farms during the colt's two-year-old campaign.
Derivatives of APM Due to the limitations of APM, there have been several attempts at improvements to the methodology since its inception.
The world's longest cricket marathon, or the longest marathon playing cricket, is a world record of the longest time continuously playing the game of cricket between two teams.
Results For the making of these lists, results from following major international tournaments were consulted: IOC: International Olympic Committee IPC: International Paralympic Committee RLIF: Rugby League International Federation WR: World Rugby Medals for the demonstration events are NOT counted.
no domestiques); and no outside support (deliveries only to public addresses or 'open' homes, no support vehicles of any kind meeting the rider along the way).
The recognition of the junior classification and subsequent record keeping began in 1962 for men and 1995 for women.
See also List of Australian rugby union stadiums by capacity List of rugby union stadiums by capacity List of rugby union stadiums in France List of English rugby union stadiums by capacity References == External links ==
Her biggest wins included the Hambletonian Oaks, Elitloppet, Copenhagen Cup, Breeders Crown and Prix d'Amérique.
All-time streaks NBA Playoffs appearance streaks Appearance streaks updated through the 2026 NBA playoffs.
Long course (50 m) Men Women Short course meters (25 m) Men Women Short course yards (25 yd) Men Women See also List of World records in swimming List of Americas records in swimming (continental records) == References ==
Example math in this section uses the above standings, with Montreal as Team A and Atlanta as Team B.
2 includes Quarterfinals from 1967–68 through 1980–81, Division Finals from 1981–82 through 1992–93 and Conference Semifinals from 1993–94 through 2012–13.
vs Toronto, Aug 12, 1993)** 586 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Oct 16, 1954)** 582 – Doug Flutie (for B.C.
Bois and other media observers noted the tendency of the Seattle Seahawks under former head coach Pete Carroll to create scorigamis; Bois dubbed Carroll "the wizard of modern Scorigami, without question".
Fran's Valentine (1982 – October, 2007) was a Thoroughbred racehorse filly, who, in 1985 as a three-year-old, won the Graded stakes races the Hollywood Oaks, Kentucky Oaks and Santa Susana Stakes.
Entries in this list also require an individual citation of the contract, so a number of the highest salaried athletes (according to Forbes) are not included as their contract details have not been officially confirmed, including the likes of Tiger Woods, Roger Federer, and Lewis Hamilton.
The Patriots' 140 "unplayed" games are essentially treated as 70–70; indeed, if the 16–0 Patriots had 70 more wins and 70 more losses, their 86–70 record would match that of the Tigers.
In mixed doubles, Billie Jean King teamed with Davidson for the last three events of his 1967 Grand Slam and completed the non-consecutive Grand Slam the next year with Dick Crealy.
Fans were kept out of the stadium but were invited to a party outside and could see the game by looking over the fence or through openings in the fence.
Czech Republic hosted six of the top 30 most attended tournaments (including three tournaments held in Czechoslovakia) as well as three of the top 5 attended tournaments.
All of the major NWA promoters were put out of business after the World Wrestling Federation began its national expansion under Vince McMahon, Jr.
Cyprus Anorthosis Famagusta FC founded in 1911 is the oldest club with a football team, however it was a reading club and the football division of the club started in 1929, the same year Omonia Aradippou was founded.
The 2020 and 2021 seasons are excluded due to the COVID-19 pandemic that caused restrictions on public gatherings.
Highest tournament winning averages Notes References External links High Averages on PDPA Professional Darts Player Association Highest Averages on TV on The Darts Forum Darts Averages on OnAverage Darts Averages on Darts1 TV Averages +105 on The Stars Of Darts Forum
Borel Hourless References External links Omar Khayyam's pedigree and partial racing stats May 13, 1917 New York Times article on Omar Khayyam's victory in the Kentucky Derby New York Times article on the 1917 John R.
In 1960, Kramer again established a tournament series with a points system, but both Gonzales and Hoad withdrew from the field and the final results are unknown.
This is a listing of the horses that finished in either first, second, or third place and the number of starters in the Breeders' Cup Distaff, a Grade I race for fillies and mares, three years old and up.
Out of the mare Katie May, whose sire was the 1967 English Horse of the Year, Busted, she was sired by Caerleon, a two-time leading sire in Great Britain & Ireland and son of English Triple Crown champion Nijinsky.
The team have competed against 12 countries in T20Is, and have played 22 matches against South Africa.
In ODI matches, Australia have played against 18 teams; they have played against England most frequently, with a winning percentage of 57.61 in 154 matches.
The list is dominated by the American professional wrestling promotion World Wrestling Entertainment which has controlled the industry in North America since 2002.
In October 2020, Stats Perform experienced a three week outage affecting key customers, including Yahoo!
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international baseball and softball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Being the most recently established NHL team, the Utah Mammoth have the fewest games played (82), wins (38), losses (31), overtime losses (13), and points (89).
Men Women Historical records Men (2018–2025) Men (1998–2018) ^1 The IWF website still lists Nijat Rahimov (Kazakhstan) record of 214 kg in the clean and jerk, which was later disqualified for doping.
Records are based on the weight's mass, not weight; weight varies slightly based on where the record was set.
The presence of star players can also create biases toward role players who spend a disproportionate amount of time on the court with them, viewing a particular player's performance as disproportionately productive due to the large scale impact of the star.
In turn, Perform Group was acquired by Vista Equity Partners in 2019, merging it with STATS LLC to form Opta's current parent company, Stats Perform.
List of largest sports clubs This list contains all clubs with a current membership of 75,000 or more, provided this is sufficiently documented.
Forbes compiles the finances of all 32 NFL teams to produce an annual ranking of the best franchises in terms of valuation.
The North American Society for Sport Management (NASSM) devotes much of their annual conference to research addressing the psychology behind a desire to view spectator sports, and how it might be leveraged to increase demand.
Alex Rodriguez, Cristiano Ronaldo, Stephen Strasburg, Manny Machado, Deshaun Watson, Stephen Curry, and Giannis Antetokounmpo are on the list two times each.
When first introduced, controversy over the Umpire Information System quickly developed as umpires and players alike voiced concern over the system's accuracy and the fact that limited deployment (6 parks in the first year) might not guarantee uniform umpiring in the remaining parks.
In May 2018, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) announced a landmark new statistics initiative for its 1,100 Members alongside Genius Sports.
Rules The record is the amount of cumulative playing time, after breaks are discounted, of a continuous game of cricket.
Merger Tempus Ex Machina acquired Biocore in August 2023, with the newly formed entity rebranding as Infinite Athlete.
The premium version also included early access to new features and a personalized search history, as well as not having ads.
Two of the cameras are located high in the stands above the 1st and 3rd base lines to track the trajectory of each pitch.
Three weeks after his Derby win, Omar Khayyam was sold as part of his owner's multi-horse dispersal auction held on the grounds of New York's Belmont Park.
Since the first round of the NHL playoffs consists of eight series (sixteen teams), there will be twenty-four teams in this list – the sixteen teams that do not qualify for the post-season, plus the eight teams that lose their first-round series.
This article lists all-time records for the National Lacrosse League, as well as the predecessors Major Indoor Lacrosse League and Eagle Pro Box Lacrosse League.
Tammaro planned to enter him in the Arlington-Washington Futurity but the colt came down with a virus, causing a short layoff.
As of the completion of the 2025 Major League Baseball Postseason, the Miami Marlins have the highest postseason winning percentage, with .600, while the Minnesota Twins have the lowest, with .379.
Attendance figures for leagues with a promotion and relegation system are more likely to vary each season due to the stadium capacity and support base for participating clubs.
Notes Copa del Rey Records in this section refers to Copa del Rey from its founding in 1902 through to the present.
The table is pre-sorted by total number of medals, then most gold medal results, silver medal results and bronze medal results, respectively.
WSL has its own method of measuring the height of a wave and has partnered with Guinness World Records to award world record certificates.
vs Edmonton, Oct 12, 1991) 561 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Sept 29, 1956) 558 – Kent Austin (for Saskatchewan vs B.C., Aug.
In support of the NFL and NFLPA, it studies the impact of equipment and playing surfaces on player health.
At Starrcade, Goldberg's undefeated streak ended at an official approximate count of 173–0, and after 174 days as champion when he lost the title to Kevin Nash, after Scott Hall, disguised as a ringside security guard, made a run-in and shocked Goldberg with a taser gun.
Canadian Football League attendance has averaged over 20,000 spectators per game in every season since 1963.
Most PGA Tour wins in two consecutive seasons Most PGA Tour wins in three consecutive seasons References See also Most European Tour wins in a year
Postseason See also List of Major League Baseball franchise postseason droughts Notes References Specific General "Major League Teams and Baseball Encyclopedia".
Criteria The criteria which must be satisfied for ratification of a world record are defined by World Athletics in Part III of the Competition Rules.
Outdoor Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by FAC Men Women Indoor Men Women Notes References General World Athletics Statistic Handbook 2022: National Outdoor Records World Athletics Statistic Handbook 2022: National Indoor Records Specific == External links ==
A study of streaks in Major League Baseball and National Basketball Association concluded that the actual results were similar enough to predictions with no momentum effect, that the effect was of limited importance.
World Skate Europe women's club ranking The women's club ranking is also made by the World Skate Europe for their club competitions.
Usage The games behind calculation is often used in professional baseball and basketball, where tie games are not permitted.
This is a list of Canadian Football League Grey Cup records that are effective as of the end of the 2025 CFL season.
The International Weightlifting Federation (IWF) restructured its weight classes in 1993, 1998, 2018 and 2025 nullifying earlier records.
The Atlanta Braves are the next-closest team in consecutive seasons with at least one playoff series win, with 5 from 1995–1999.
In 1996, when he was 19 years old, Niatross made a 20-city tour for his fans in Canada and the United States.
Formed from the merger of Biocore and Tempus Ex Machina, it provides data stream consolidation, data visualization, and integrated player tracking technology for organizations including the National Football League, Chelsea F.C., and the NCAA's Pac-12 Conference.
Men (1993–1997) Men (1973–1992) Men (1920–1972) Women (2018–2025) Women (1998–2018) ^2 The IWF website still lists Nurcan Taylan's (Türkiye) record of 121 kg in the clean and jerk, which was later disqualified for doping.
CFL attendance has been depressed during the middle of the 2010s by short-term issues, most notably the lack of stadium availability in Toronto and Hamilton.
In paired comparison data, there is often very little practical difference in whether it is assumed that the differences in players' strengths are normally or logistically distributed.
Not included are the Olympic tournaments, which though they are run as an IIHF tournament, have been separate from the World Championships since 1972.
For the 2019–20 NBA season, if a conference's 9th-place team was within 4 games back of the 8th-place team in the standings, a play-in matchup between the two seeds would be triggered.
The Montreal Wanderers, having had their arena burn down during the first NHL season, have the fewest games played (6), wins (1), and points (2), as well as the lowest point percentage (.167).
This list also includes coaches who coached in the CFL's predecessor leagues, the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union (CFL East Division) and the Western Interprovincial Football Union (CFL West Division).
These records are kept/maintained by the Ukrainian Swimming Federation (Федерація плавання України).
Racing at age three, he won the Queenston Stakes then upset heavily favored Harlem Rocker in the Plate Trial Stakes.
This list of speed skating records is an overview of the records currently held in various speed skating events, as ratified by the International Skating Union.
But later on 13 March 2014 FINA has officially ratified the eight world records set by Indiana University swimmers at the IU Relay Rally held on 26 September 2013 in Bloomington.
In an extreme example, attempting to compare the records of the 2007 New England Patriots (16–0; 1.000 winning percentage) and the 1972 Detroit Tigers (86–70; .551 winning percentage) finds that the teams are equivalent on a games behind calculation, as each team won 16 more games than it lost.
According to this list, 17 events are from WWE's flagship WrestleMania pay-per-view (PPV) event, which since 2007's WrestleMania 23 has been held exclusively in stadiums that typically have a seating capacity of at least 70,000 people or more.
For example, Team A at 6–4 would be tied with Team B at 4–2, in terms of games behind; however, Team B has the better winning percentage, at .667 compared to .600 for Team A.
The term should not be confused with the so-called "Hat-trick", which is used when a driver achieves pole position, the fastest lap in the race, and wins the race.
In 2014, FiveThirtyEight created Elo-based ratings and win-projections for the American professional National Football League.
The longest a franchise has gone without appearing in the playoffs at all is 16 seasons: the Kings franchise from 2006 to 2023.
The most important stages of a bicycle race for GC contenders are mountain stages and individual time trial stages, both of which offer good opportunities for a single racer to outperform other racers.
The voting panel took into account players' performance between 14 September 2015 and 20 September 2016.
The Boston Celtics hold the longest consecutive NBA Finals appearance streak with ten appearances between 1957 and 1966.
Where seating capacity is a legal requirement, however, as it is in movie theatres and on aircraft, the law reflects the fact that the number of people allowed in should not exceed the number who can be seated.
As of 11 July 2022, Australia have played 844 Test matches; winning 400, lost 227, 215 were drawn and 2 matches were tied.
These attempts are generally buzzer beaters when there is not enough time left on the clock to pass or dribble the ball further upcourt for a closer and easier shot attempt.
The following are the national records in track cycling in India, maintained by the Cycling Federation of India.
In 2017, the NWA was purchased by Billy Corgan and became a singular, independent promotion, putting an end to the NWA territory system.
In the 1960 Kentucky Derby, Victoria Park was ridden by Manuel Ycaza and finished third behind winner Venetian Way and Bally Ache.
It's just something we've been working on in the offseason." Usage outside sports The concept has also been extended to weather, with first-time occurrences of combinations of daily maximum and minimum temperatures at a location being termed "weathergami".
Real Plus-Minus (RPM) ESPN's RPM incorporates a Bayesian statistical prior based ridge regression utilizing player tracking, box score metrics, and stats logged by ESPN's Stats and Information group.
It is important to note, however, that the International Olympic Committee does not combine medals of these nations.
Medals earned by athletes from defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are NOT merged with the results achieved by their immediate successor states.
Etymology 'Exerkine' was coined in 2016 by Mark Tarnopolsky and colleagues, based on a portmanteau of 'exercise' and κίνησις (kínēsis, Ancient Greek for 'movement').
It was originally created by Drew Sheppard to demonstrate the constant release point of Texas Rangers starting pitcher Yu Darvish despite the different speeds and locations of the pitches from that release point.
Exercise as an alternative treatment to low-value care There is increasing evidence that many 'traditional' medical interventions are ineffective at best and potentially harmful at worst.
In contrast to weight training, flywheel training offers variable resistance throughout the range of motion, which facilitates isoinertial training and eccentric overload.
He made his debut for Bradford on 20 November against Brentford when he scored after just two minutes but received the first red card of his career for violent conduct after a clash with Deon Burton.
Buddy wrapping may also be used when medical help is not immediately available, for example in the wilderness.
Furthermore, endurance training, functional training, and multi-domain training (i.e., engaging in several types of exercise) may provide improvements.
In 2005 he undertook a series of experiments in the Arctic and Antarctic on South African (British-born) swimmer Lewis Gordon Pugh to understand human capability in extreme cold.
Mental health refers to a person's mental state, well-being, and ability to cope with the daily stresses of life.
The parallel element is responsible for the muscle passive behavior when it is stretched, even when the contractile element is not activated.
Primary infections usually heal completely without leaving scars but the virus that caused the infection in the first place remains in the body in a latent state.
PPEs are required for athletic participation according to the laws of some jurisdictions and the rules of many sports governing bodies.
This in turn can improve athletic performance in speed, jump height, change of direction and resilience to injury.
The results of a 2002 study suggest that the total number of pitches thrown is the greatest determinant.
The management board deals with the day-to-day operations of CAES and overseas the different Boards of Control.
This sound can be heard as the diastolic pressure of the irregularly shaped heart creates a disordered blood flow.
Even after receiving warning letters from the FDA, some sports and weight loss supplement companies continue to use oxilofrine as an undeclared ingredient in their products despite it being prohibited.
A 2003 meta-analysis found a positive effect of exercise in children on perceptual skills, intelligence quotient, achievement, verbal tests, mathematic tests, and academic readiness.
The key to a good kettlebell swing is effectively thrusting the hips, not bending too much at the knees and sending the weight forwards, as opposed to squatting the weight up, or lifting up with the arms.
When the person is without pain, sports massage and range-of-motion activities may reduce tension and swelling and prevent scar tissue buildup.
The benefits of telehealth include improved accessibility in remote areas, cost efficiency, and improved convenience for people who are bedridden and home-restricted, or physically disabled.
While it should not be required for a diagnosis, a 2-day CPET can show that symptoms are not due to deconditioning and provide evidence for obtaining disability benefits.
Diagnosis Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction can be difficult to diagnose clinically given the lack of specific symptoms and frequent misinterpretation as manifestations of vigorous exercise.
Cause A study of 20 volunteers conducted at Nagoya University in Japan associated a higher degree of exercise-induced nausea after eating.
Variability exists between DAT blockade, and extracellular dopamine, leading to the hypothesis that methylphenidate amplifies basal dopamine activity, leading to nonresponse in those with low basal DA activity.
Operative treatment is rarely indicated and is reserved for patients with significant displacement or fractures of the bones.
It is the only national sport university of South Korea and offers degrees from undergraduate to doctoral level.
Just like in Exercise-Induced Hypoalgesia, the increased blood pressure of hypertension works as a signal to the body to release opioids and activate other pain modulation pathways.
He coached World Cup finals with England against Australia in both codes – losing the 1995 rugby league final, before winning the 2003 final in rugby union.
Ganslen (February 15, 1917 – May 12, 1995 in Denton, Texas) was an American track and field athlete specializing in the pole vault but also was a top athlete in the long jump and triple jump.
He was President of his own baseball consulting company, EBC, Inc., from 2000 to 2011 and in that role consulted on baseball operations and player personnel matters for several major league teams, including the Cleveland Indians, Oakland A's, and Tampa Bay Rays.
A study from the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognition and Brain Sciences shows how music helps boost workouts.
In 1999, the Institute was renamed the Lithuanian Academy of Physical Education (Lithuanian: Lietuvos kūno kultūros akademija or LKKA) by a resolution of the Parliament of Lithuania (Seimas).
However, they have an extensive list of adverse effects, such as adrenal suppression, weight gain, osteoporosis, hyperglycemia, etc.
Starting in 1958, she studied at the Leningrad State Institute of Fine Mechanics and Optics, and graduated in 1965.
Research studies The increased performance benefit associated with muscle contractions that take place during SSCs has been the focus of much research in order to determine the true nature of this enhancement.
Upon dissolution of the NSC in 1999, the MSSA played its part in supporting the formation of the South African Sports Commission in 1999.
In the heart, concentric hypertrophy is related to increased pressure overload of the heart, often due to hypertension and/or aortic stenosis.
This treatment may be performed by a physician or other medical professional in a hospital, orthopedic clinic, or other medical facility.
Important considerations in echocardiography of the hypertrophied heart include lateral and septal wall thickness, degree of outflow tract obstruction, and systolic anterior wall motion (SAM) of the mitral valve, which can exacerbate outflow obstruction.
PEM is a cardinal symptom of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome and is common in long COVID as well.
By the start of the Second World War, the organisation had saved 900 academics (18 of whom went on to win Nobel Prizes) from Nazi persecution.
Józef Piłsudski University of Physical Education in Warsaw (Polish: Akademia Wychowania Fizycznego Józefa Piłsudskiego w Warszawie, lit.
She started working with Paralympic athletes in 1994, and attended the 1996 Summer Paralympics, 2000 Summer Paralympics and the 2012 Summer Paralympics.
These compensatory changes, termed "concentric hypertrophy," reduce the increase in wall tension observed in aortic stenosis.
PPEs screen for a variety of conditions, including athletic heart syndrome and risk of sudden cardiac death.
He first became aware of track cycling when he watched TV coverage of Scottish sprinter Eddie Alexander winning a bronze medal at the 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh.
Professional career From 1980 to 1984, Iermakov worked as a physical education teacher at Kharkiv Secondary School No.
ATP hydrolysis is the final link between the energy derived from food or sunlight and useful work such as muscle contraction, the establishment of electrochemical gradients across membranes, and biosynthetic processes necessary to maintain life.
The size of the effect changes based on the era of play, game type, season length, sport, even number of time zones crossed.
Epidemiologic and clinical data were collected during the final two days of the camp after officials alerted the Minnesota Department of Health, which, in turn, alerted the Centers for Disease Control.
As the muscle's force changes via the length-tension relationship during a contraction, an isotonic contraction keeps force constant while velocity changes, whereas an isokinetic contraction keeps velocity constant while force changes.
Since 1994, he has worked at Kharkiv Institute of Design and Fine Arts (now Kharkiv State Academy of Design and Fine Arts).
HSV-1 can also cause infection of the eye, or even infection of the lining of the brain, known as meningoencephalitis.
The blood lactate concentration at the anaerobic threshold is called the "maximum steady-state lactate concentration" (MLSS).
McKenzie exercises involve spinal extension exercises, as opposed to Williams flexion exercises, which involve lumbar flexion exercises.
The 1980s to 1990s saw rapid expansion in its course offerings as coaching, community sports, sports and leisure studies, health management, sports safety management, taekwondo and sports media were added.
An isometric exercise is an exercise involving the static contraction of a muscle without any visible movement in the angle of the joint.
Sodium is also important in regulating the amount of water that passes through the blood–brain barrier.
Triple jump, the objective is to leap horizontally as far as possible, in a series of three jumps Sports American football Association football ("soccer" in U.S.
Biwako Seikei Sport College (びわこ成蹊スポーツ大学, Biwako seikei spōtsu daigaku) is a private university in Otsu, Shiga, Japan, established in 2003.
A MET is the ratio of the rate of energy expended during an activity to the rate of energy expended at rest.
Peter John Brancazio (March 22, 1939 – April 25, 2020) was an American professor of physics at Brooklyn College for more than 30 years, whose observatory he temporarily headed.
However, this may be considered a "pro" by non-BCS teams in Division I-A college football who point out that ratings systems have proven that their top teams belong in the same strata as the BCS teams.
There is 62% accumulation of phenylpropanolamine at steady state in terms of peak levels, whereas area-under-the-curve levels are not increased with steady state.
Long-term effects of previous training on the muscle fibers themselves, however, have recently also been observed related to strength training.
First, the absolute tensions achieved can be very high relative to the muscle's maximum tetanic tension generating capacity (you can set down a much heavier object than you can lift).
It was established in 1973 as a hardcover book series, and became a quarterly peer-reviewed journal in January 2000.
History The university opened in 1930 as the National Institute of Physical Education of Ukraine in Kharkiv.
A meta-analysis of studies conducted between 2001 and 2010 revealed a rate of 5 episodes/1,000 flight-years.
Japan Women's College of Physical Education (日本女子体育大学, Nihon joshi taiiku daigaku) is a private university in Setagaya, Tokyo, Japan.
For example, researchers may ask subjects to complete an incremental exercise test where VO2max is measured while the person cycles at increasingly difficult power generation levels as measured by a cycle ergometer.
Systemic glucocorticoids can also be used for episodes of severe disease but should not be used for long term due to their long list of side effects.
Aerobic capacity serves as a good measure of exercise intensity as it is the upper limit of one's physical performance.
Further on, chances are high that after only 1 or 2 years of the surgery symptoms start to return as the fibrocartilage wears away, forcing the patient to reengage in articular cartilage repair.
This allows for stretch reflex from hamstrings to help scoop the bell up, ensures upward trajectory.
Types Exerkines come in many forms, including hormones, metabolites, proteins and nucleic acids; are synthesized and secreted from multiple tissues and cell types; and exert their effects through endocrine, paracrine and/or autocrine pathways.
He won European bronze and World Championship silver medals, also competing in two Olympic Games, representing Great Britain in the Modern Pentathlon.
The incidence of EAH in athletes has increased in recent years, especially in the United States, as marathon races and endurance events have become more popular.
During her career, she has developed expertise in clinical and sports performance biomechanics, contributing significantly to understanding human movement.
Another high-profile incident occurred on January 2, 2023, during Monday Night Football when Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin experienced commotio cordis after Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Tee Higgins's helmet struck him in the chest as he was making a tackle.
These consensus statements have been seen on the positive side as being sports medicine leaders moving the management of concussion in a more conservative direction over time and encouraging a standard set of tests and assessments.
Benefits of the method By delaying acidosis, hypoventilation training would also delay the onset of fatigue and would therefore improve performance during strenuous exertions of short to moderate durations.
It is headquartered in Žaliakalnis neighbourhood, in close proximity to the Kaunas Sports Hall and the S.
His doctoral research examined exercise training and antioxidant supplementation in relation to oxidative stress and cardiac function.
Osaka University of Health and Sport Sciences (大阪体育大学, Ōsaka taiiku daigaku) is a private university in the town of Kumatori in Osaka Prefecture, Japan.
It entails the fixation of one's gaze to the object and adjustment of the running speed so that the angle of the gaze remains constant while approaching the object (see the three decision rules in the table above).
Australia Ephedrine and all Ephedra species that contain it are considered Schedule 4 substances under the Poisons Standard.
With a total of seven Olympic medals, six gold and one silver, Hoy is the second most decorated Olympic cyclist of all time.
The FMS is used by fitness, sports-performance and healthcare professionals as a quick, standardised method for screening movement quality, exposing functional asymmetries and informing corrective or referral decisions.
Biography Her family lived in Petersburg (and later in Leningrad), but Manina was born in Petrozavodsk, where her father was on a long mission.
In 2020, ISSP membership was open to medical students, residents, psychiatrists, and other clinicians, and the organization collaborated with national and international partners to advance sports psychiatry.
History The Connected Scarf is a collaboration between English Premier League side Manchester City and American technology conglomerate Cisco.
Brand names of these combination preparations have included Amiphedrin, Amodrine, Amodrine E C, Asphamal-D, Asthmadrin, Cenamal, Cholarace, Phedrahist, Respirol, Salidin, Synate-M, and Synophedal.
Myokine secretion in turn is dependent on the amount of muscle contracted, and the duration and intensity of contraction.
Periods of increased strength are short-lived, usually no longer than a few minutes, and might lead to muscle injuries and exhaustion later.
His role has been to train and coach celebrities who do challenges for charity, such as comedian David Walliams, John Bishop, James Cracknell, Cheryl Cole, Gary Barlow, and Eddie Izzard.
Research and experimental development activities are carried out in four departments of the University, in Sports Science and Innovations Institute and also, in The European research center of basketball.
History On May 17, 1909, Tsar Nicholas II formally granted the provisional regulations for military sports education, which were the basis for the formation of the current institute.
Recommendations were made for mandatory training on the recognition and treatment of concussions for teachers, coaches and healthcare providers.
The inability to establish a singular set of physiological contributions to blood lactate accumulation's effect on the exercising individual creates a correlative role for lactate threshold in marathon performance as opposed to a causal role.
ATP is a necessity to the body, especially during exercise when a constant supply of energy is required.
As is usual with categorization, there are borderline cases; caffeine, for example, is considered a performance enhancer by some but not others.
Treatment for Molluscun Contagiosum must be designated by a healthcare professional because they can be dangerous.
At the same time, even doing an hour and a quarter (11 minutes/day) of exercise can reduce the risk of early death, cardiovascular disease, stroke, and cancer.
The resulting unfolded precursor proteins will then be able to reach their respective mitochondrial compartments.
Before progression to a dilated phenotype, mechanical obstruction of the outflow tract can occur, leading to reduced cardiac output.
If insufficient oxygen is available, the acid is broken down anaerobically, creating lactate in animals and ethanol in plants and microorganisms (and in carp).
The coach is not a passive perceiver of information, and as such his or her perception of events is selective and constructive, not simply a copying process.
In October 2018, the WBO stripped boxer Billy Joe Saunders of its middleweight world title after he tested positive for oxilofrine, as a result of a drug test administered by the Voluntary Anti-Doping Association (VADA).
It starts every cycle of training from the macro-, meso- and microcycle after restoration and recovery.
In 1989, the notable German researcher Herbert Haag observed that the meaning of the term 'sport pedagogy' was not fully established in English speaking sport science literature.
Education in exercise physiology Accreditation programs exist with professional bodies in most developed countries, ensuring the quality and consistency of education.
Operation Rather than simulating altitude with low air pressure (which would require substantial engineering and the use of an airlock to prevent implosion), the altitude tent remains at the ambient air pressure, substituting low pressure with low concentration of oxygen.
On May 4, Drew Sheppard announced the development of a partnership with FanGraphs.com to produce additional animations.
He was Director of Research and Statistics for the Baltimore Orioles from 1988 to 1994 and Director of Baseball Operations for the San Diego Padres from 1995 to 1999.
Sufficiently overexpressing ΔJunD in the nucleus accumbens with viral vectors can completely block many of the neural and behavioral alterations seen in chronic drug abuse (i.e., the alterations mediated by ΔFosB).
There are a number of variables affecting return to sport following injuries or surgeries that are multifactorial.
Tanking teams are usually seeking top picks in the next draft, since league rules generally give the highest draft picks to the teams with the worst records in the previous season.
Regulation PGC-1α, a member of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PGC) family of transcriptional coactivators, is the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis.
However, upon completion of level 2, physiotherapists can apply to a unique 1-year course-based Master's program in advanced orthopedics and manipulation at the University of Western Ontario to complete their training.
At the centre of the inquiry is the pedagogical encounter between the teacher/coach/instructor and the learner/participant.
History There are many sports which are fairly dangerous and involve threatening activities, especially during competition.
While the body's metabolism typically restores glycogen levels through a regular dietary intake of 3 to 4 balanced meals per day, some theorists suggest that timing may be critical.
There is some evidence that dexmethylphenidate has better bioavailability and a longer duration of action than methylphenidate.
As with many exercise test equations, there have been many regression equations developed that may give varying results.
Furthermore, an injection of corticosteroids into the affected area may reduce symptoms in the short term and accelerate rehabilitation.
Peter Mark Andrew Phillips (born 15 November 1977) is a British businessman and member of the British royal family.
Requirements to become a team physician include four years of undergraduate study, four years of medical school, four to five years of medical residency, and one year of fellowship training.
It is like clothing when properly affixed, although some backpacks require tension in the pectorals or being held on the arms to keep from sliding off if not properly affixed.
NBA team, Toronto Raptors, shared with sports blog, Grantland, their progress with the use of SportVU's new algorithms.
A rondo is a type of game, similar to keep away, that is used as a training drill in association football (soccer).
Players 2022 roster In November 2022, the NBA Academy Africa fielded the following roster playing in the 2023 BAL qualification.
Sudden increase of exercise levels is likely to lead to painful musculoskeletal symptoms or even injury (preventing further exercise).
Muscle pain can range from a mild soreness to a debilitating injury depending on intensity of exercise, level of training, and other factors.
Barnabás Varga, Hungarian professional footballer, after a collision with Scotland goalkeeper Angus Gunn in the Euro 2024 Group A match on June 23, 2024.
The ICD-11 includes caffeine dependence as a distinct diagnostic category, which closely mirrors the DSM-5's proposed set of criteria for "caffeine-use disorder".
Reasons for inactivity In the US, only 26% of adults engage in vigorous leisure-time activity (which includes a sport) or exercising three or more times per week.
Management Exercise amenorrhoea can be managed by eating a diet rich in calories and by decreasing the duration and intensity of exercise for at least 12 months.
Aerobic exercise at low or moderate intensity is not a very efficient way to lose fat in comparison to high intensity aerobic exercise.
The university offers degree programs at the bachelor's, master's, and doctoral levels, as well as teacher training qualifications.
It is a component of the peptides carnosine and anserine and also of pantothenic acid (vitamin B5), which itself is a component of coenzyme A.
Harriet Sperling By June 2024, Phillips had introduced his partner, NHS paediatric nurse and freelance writer Harriet Sperling (née Sanders; born 1980), to King Charles III and Queen Camilla.
A 2019 systematic review found evidence that the method could reduce chronic lower back pain in the short term and enhance function in the longer term, but that most studies of the treatment had methodological flaws, such as small sample sizes and a lack of blinding.
Although in the event finals of the 1958 Worlds Manina, apart from the gold in the team competition, won a gold on the balance beam, and won a silver medal on vault, she placed 3rd in the all-around to Latynina and Eva Bosáková.
Blood and bone marrow (which contains stem cells) seep out of the fractures, creating a blood clot that releases cartilage-building cells.
This reaction is strongly exergonic and irreversible; in gluconeogenesis, it takes two enzymes, pyruvate carboxylase and PEP carboxykinase, to catalyze the reverse transformation of pyruvate to PEP.
The intramuscular coordination defines the number of muscular fibres that can be controlled synchronously by the nervous system within a certain muscle.
EJSS The European Journal of Sport Science (EJSS) is a peer-reviewed academic Medline- and Impact Factor-listed journal of the European College of Sport Science that focuses on the field of sport science.
From 1987 to 1990, he pursued his postgraduate studies at the State Central Institute of Physical Culture (Moscow).
In 1981 he launched the concept which he called "Mechanical Diagnosis and Therapy (MDT)" – a system encompassing assessment, diagnosis and treatment for the spine and extremities.
Early rehabilitation for sports hernias often emphasises targeted strengthening around the symptomatic area.
The model is constituted by a contractile element (CE) and two non-linear spring elements, one in series (SE) and another in parallel (PE).
To cause a physiological response, the altitude must be sufficient to reduce blood oxygen saturation (sometimes measured by a pulse oximeter) to approximately 90%.
Although the lactate threshold is defined as the point when lactic acid starts to accumulate, some testers approximate this by crossing the lactate threshold and using the point at which lactate reaches a concentration of 4 mmol/L of lactate.
Personal life Relationships Elizabeth Iorio and Tara Swain Phillips dated Elizabeth Iorio, a cod liver oil heiress from the United States, for two years.
The AFL Mental Health and Wellbeing strategy is informed by the best available evidence and includes pillars across prevention, promotion and response.
Arnáiz is also the founder of three sports tech companies: SoloPerformance, ThermoHuman, and Performance Creators.
In 2002, he and Adriano Galliani founded Milan Lab, the football science center of Italian Serie A side Milan.
These steroids have little desired effect compared to anabolic steroids, but have the same side effects.
A New York Times study examining race results after the 2017 release of Nike’s Vaporfly 4% showed similar performance increases to the elite field.
Paul McGuinness (born 2 March 1966) is an English former footballer who played as a midfielder in the Football League for Crewe Alexandra and Chester City.
The school grew from The Gymnastical Central School for Athletics and Weapon Use, which was established in 1870.
Because of the use of plastic panels to reduce exchange with the room, heat and humidity can build up in an altitude tent.
Vyvanse is marketed as once-a-day dosing as it provides a slow release of dextroamphetamine into the body.
Bruce's first reports on treadmill exercise tests, published in 1949, analyzed minute-by-minute changes in respiratory and circulatory function of normal adults and patients with heart or lung disease.
"Evidence-based scientific exercise guidelines for adults with spinal cord injury: an update and a new guideline".
At age 30 she went to the 1964 Summer Olympics and won the team's gold and silver on the balance beam.
It has been postulated that elastic structures in series with the contractile component can store energy like a spring after being forcibly stretched.
They may however not alter medial or lateral displacement, but can be helpful as a diagnostic tool for occult patellofemoral instability.
At the start of the 2010-2011 NBA season, four teams were contracted to use SportVU, the Dallas Mavericks, Houston Rockets, Oklahoma City Thunder and San Antonio Spurs.
Exercise-induced collapse (EIC) is a genetic disorder that causes dogs of certain breeds to collapse after a period of intense exercise.
This results in a gait that waddles slightly, as Pistorius swings his upper body to balance the springing action of the blades.
Kiely (2012) states periodization provides benefits such as providing idealized training structures, times frames to progress athletes and therefore development and retention of overall fitness adaptations.
Due to the specific and unique needs and interests of the client/patient, the goal of exercise prescription should focus on motivation and customization, thus making achieving goals more likely to become successful.
As a player, McGuinness was a midfielder who made 20 Football League appearances with Crewe Alexandra and Chester City.
Goodman made his Millwall debut on 26 December as a substitute at The Old Den against Leicester City, and it wasn't long before he was a regular member of the first team.
The microfractures are treated as an injury by the body, which is why the surgery results in new, replacement cartilage.
The Penguins finished with the worst record and drafted Lemieux; however, the NHL did not immediately institute a draft lottery as the NBA had and continued to have the team with the worst record pick first until 1995.
To prevent hip pointer, the equipment must be adequate in the sport and be well positioned and good size.
For healthy adults aged 18 to 65, the guidelines recommend moderate exercise for 30 minutes five days a week, or vigorous aerobic exercise for 20 minutes three days a week.
The European College of Sport Science (ECSS) is a non-profit organisation dedicated to the promotion and application of multi-, and interdisciplinary science in sport, exercise, physical activity, and health.
In 1943, the Institute and its staff, then stationed in Moscow as a consequence of the long Siege of Leningrad (1941-1944), was awarded the Order of the Red Banner in honor of its role in the war effort, and returned back to Leningrad after the war, where it remains to this day.
These conditions include: The above list does not include all potential contraindications or precautions to exercise.
She established the ISBS Student Mentor Programme, which provides mentorship to early-career researchers and strengthens the conference experience for students.
Adaptogens Adaptogens are plants that support health through nonspecific effects, neutralize various environmental and physical stressors while being relatively safe and free of side effects.
Many studies have shown the direct link between the two by subjecting patients to exercise and rating their pain responses, but despite the great deal of research, the mechanism of action is still poorly understood.
Results from a 2024 systematic review showed that methylphenidate significantly improves ADHD symptoms and broadband measures but can cause appetite suppression and other adverse events in children and adolescents.
Mainwaring died in 2007 and it was revealed that he had a cocktail of both prescription and illicit drugs in his system.
Graduate Schools Master's and Doctoral Degree Programs, Graduate School of Health and Sport Science Research Centers Comprehensive Sport Science Research Center The Comprehensive Sport Science Research Center publishes the open access journal, "NSSU Journal of Sport Sciences".
In 1988, Eclectic Products was sold to the Willamette Valley Company, which moved Shoe Goo's operations to Eugene, Oregon.
Since 2022, the academy has a program called BAL Elevate with the Basketball Africa League (BAL), that allows each BAL team to select an academy player to feature on its roster during the season.
These sores are usually caused by ill-fitting gear, dirty gear, lack of proper padding, or unbalanced loads.
In regard to the flexion muscles of the ankle, weighted footwear provides unique methods of working them that ankle weights do not.
International Technical Trading Inc, Japanese homepage: http://www.shoegoo.co.jp English homepage: http://www.shoegoo.asia
Specific example For the high-level and elite athlete in endurance sport like cycling or long distance trail, GPP counts more or less for 70-80% of the training time through Long Slow Distance.
The study stated that in the last 20 years (1990–2010), the prevalence of obesity in Australia has more than doubled.
Canopy (dilution): The dilution technique is considered the gold standard technology for Resting Energy Expenditure measurement in clinical nutrition.
Aerobic exercise increases the production of neurotrophic factors (e.g., BDNF, IGF-1, VEGF) which mediate improvements in cognitive functions and various forms of memory by promoting blood vessel formation in the brain, adult neurogenesis, and other forms of neuroplasticity.
Laboratory investigations address the cellular and molecular mechanisms of exercise, particularly in the cardiovascular and musculoskeletal systems.
In June 2017 a proposed taxpayer-funded guarantee of £210 million was rejected by the Welsh Government on the grounds that the financial risk was too great.
The Big Banana has been a family owned business since it was opened by Betty and John Landi, and Stella and John Enveoldson in 1964.
The project cost is ₱200 million and it is the largest project proposed by Former Bohol Governor Arthur Yap.
Of the three Canadian cities that host both MLS and CFL teams, only one (Montreal) has separate stadiums for each.
A player tackled just short of the try-line in rugby league cannot reach across it and place the ball down for a try.
After South Africa was selected to host the World Cup, the construction and building of this stadium was completely halted.
One front wall called frontis, which is the wall where the players must throw the ball in each play.
The arena is primarily used for handball, and is home to as well the men's Danish Handball League team GOG, and the women's 1st Division team.
His named was engraved on the Stanley Cup following the Bruins' victory in the 1970 and 1972 Stanley Cup Finals.
In 2005, a broken down train was being pushed by one of the two other sets to a maintenance shed for repairs when the coupling system failed and the broken down set ploughed into the lagoon.
At the time, the cattle in Chile were not well identified and it was not uncommon for the animals to get lost.
Reception Glass basketball courts have faced a mixed reception from players due to their different feel in comparison to wooden courts.
During the 2020 Ski Jumping World Cup – Teams, Japanese ski jumper Yukiya Satō (佐藤 幸椰) broke Dawid Kubacki's previous hill record at 143.5m with a massive 147m jump.
The arena was first named after the financial group Capinordic, but the company withdrew their sponsorship in January 2010.
Bullrings of the world The most famous bullrings in the world are Plaza de Toros de Las Ventas in Madrid (Spain), widely regarded as the most prestigious one, La Maestranza in Seville (Spain), Campo Pequeno in Lisbon (Portugal) and Plaza de Toros México in Mexico City.
The Matratzenlager is usually found in the attic of the hut and can consist of about 10 to 100 bedspaces.
The Sevens is located at the intersection of the Dubai-Al Ain Road (E66) and the Jebel Ali-Lahbab Road (E77).
On 17 November 2015, it was reported that the Welsh government had given final approval to deregister the common land on which the circuit is to be built.
List of the top 30 most attended tournaments † = team won the championship as host See also List of IIHF World Championship medalists Ice Hockey World Championships == References ==
Many modern changing rooms often have labyrinth-style entrances that have no door, so that people outside cannot see in, but security can walk in at any time without the sound of an opening door alerting persons inside.
A common tongue-in-cheek reference to having seats in the upper tiers of a stadium (sometimes described as being in the rafters, although this word technically describes a structure with a specific function) is "sitting in the nosebleed section", or "nosebleed seats".
The Professional Grounds Management Society (PGMS) is an individual membership society of grounds professionals advancing the grounds management profession through education and professional development in the United States.
The arena was supposed to be home ground of the FCK Handball professional handball teams, but on 26 February 2010 the project was officially abolished.
The championship has been held outside Scotland and England three times, in 1951, 2019 and 2025; Royal Portrush Golf Club in Northern Ireland was the venue for all three tournaments.
A ring girl (also number girl, card girl, or round girl) is an attractive young woman hired to enter the ring between rounds of a combat sport, carrying a sign displaying the number of the next round.
Lei tai in its present form appeared during the Song dynasty when it was used for boxing and Shuai Jiao exhibition matches and private duels.
Louis Cardinals Ballpark Founders Club Seat Licenses National Basketball Association Charlotte Hornets PSL Golden State Warriors Membership Instituted in 2017 for all season tickets at the team's future home of Chase Center, opening in 2019.
Roller derby, a professional sport of the 1950s and 1960s once considered virtually dead, has seen a DIY, grassroots rebirth in popularity in the early 21st century with amateur and semi-pro teams forming leagues nationwide.
The hill was featured in competitions at the 1929, 1939, and 1962 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships, as well as the 2001 Winter Universiade.
In 2006, Nebraska installed new FieldTurf that alternates between two shades of green every five yards.
By extension, it could also refer to the legal obligation of a private citizen to billet state officials or soldiers.
Abed in Amozoc, Puebla Estadio de Béisbol Alberto Romo Chávez in Aguascalientes Estadio de Béisbol Beto Ávila in Cancún Eduardo Vasconcelos Stadium in Oaxaca Estadio de Béisbol Francisco I.
Ballparks in Minor League Baseball are normally much smaller than major-league parks, and the vast majority have no seats or other sections in the outfield that would distract batters or obstruct their view of the pitched ball.
The Big Banana is a tourist attraction and amusement park in the city of Coffs Harbour, New South Wales, Australia.
The architectural firm of McLaughlin and Burr remained active into the 1950s, designing multiple residential, commercial, and public buildings (including many schools) throughout Massachusetts.
From 1943 to 1945, Bolles was project engineer for the Federal Public Housing Authority for San Francisco, where he worked with fellow architect Esther Baum Born acquiring properties for housing war-industry workers.
Some sports are particularly known as "armchair sports" or "lounge room sports" due to the quality of the broadcasting experience in comparison to the live experience.
The initial construction dates, as mentioned above, to the 4th or mid-3rd century BC The latter dating coincides with the celebration of the Soteria, ceremonial celebration of the victory against the Galatians.
Paul-Ausserleitner-Schanze ("Paul Ausserleitner Hill") is ski jumping hill opened in 1947 as "Hochkönigsschanze", re-built in 2004, and is part of a complex of ski jumping hills located in Bischofshofen, Austria.
In the middle of the dohyō a square hole is cut in where the tate-gyoji will then place inside: torreya nuts, dried chestnuts, salt, washed rice, dried squid or cuttlefish and kombu (seaweed).
This contrasts with leagues such as Super Rugby and the URC, which operate in multiple countries with more than one team in most (Super Rugby) or all (URC) of their participating countries, and also make no pretense of being a championship for a continental-size region.
The ultimate goals are to assist the individual manager in developing techniques and management skills to assure an outstanding grounds management program for his or her organization, clients or employers and upgrade the level of the profession.
Ballparks Known as the "Frank Lloyd Wright of baseball", Davis was one of the first architects to design ballparks with innovative steel-beam and concrete construction.
Gallery Europe Latin America North America Africa Oceania, Australia, New Zealand Asia See also Adirondack lean-to Bivouac shelter - a tent, or a permanent structure (e.g., a bivacco in the Italian Alps).
Northlands anticipated that the 2016 opening of Rogers Place would lead to a major loss in revenue, due to major events being held there instead of the Coliseum.
Cricket is unusual among major sports (along with golf, Australian rules football and baseball) in that there is no official rule for a fixed-shape ground for professional games.
Association football An association football scoreboard usually shows the score for the home and away team, as well as the current match time.
This list of rowing venues contains the rowing sites, that allow for international rowing regattas (2,000 m), as described by FISA.
The pitch is prepared differently from the rest of the field, to provide a harder surface for bowling.
Islamabad Cricket Stadium is a state-of-the-art under-construction cricket stadium in Islamabad, Pakistan.
In the national park itself, Boofen is only permitted at designated sites and only in connection with climbing, although in this case lighting fires is absolutely forbidden.
The octorad also resembled the shape of a television, which was growing in mainstream use at the time.
Health Nutrition programs of athletes are determined and implemented in cooperation with the relevant trainers and nutrition specialists.
He hired former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Norm Van Brocklin to serve as the team's first coach.
There are still several rink bandy tournaments in Russia, including the Patriarch Cup (Турнир на призы Святейшего Патриарха Московского и всея Руси) for children at Moscow's Red Square.
Griffiths Stadium – Herndon, Virginia – 2010 Highland School – Warrenton, Virginia – 2009 James Madison High School – Normand F.
Career Boston Garden After spending months lobbying Boston Garden treasurer George Clare for a job, Powers was hired as an accounting clerk in January 1929.
See also Mondello Park Circuit of Wales References External links Lake Torrent homepage Driven International
Not included are the Olympic tournaments, which though they are run as an IIHF tournament, have been separate from the World Championships since 1972.
The ski jumping hills consist of a large hill with a K-point of 120, a normal hill with a K-point of 90, and two training hills.
The grounds manager is responsible for the management of staff, money, materials and equipment utilized in maintaining and enhancing a landscaped site including turf, trees, woody ornamentals and flowers, outdoor structure and related facilities.
The Arena Portugal, with a capacity for 240 spectators,, will provide all the facilities necessary for the work of the athletes and support staff, as well as common leisure and monitoring areas for the USP (Health and Performance Unit).
Through soil microbial activity and plant root respiration, certain gases such as oxygen will be depleted in the soil, while others, such as carbon dioxide, will build up in the soil.
The main arena seats 2,000 and was home to the reborn Quebec Remparts of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League from 1997 to 1999 when they moved back to their traditional home at the Colisée Pepsi.
In addition, an elderly man helped rescue 15 people at the scene, but was later taken to the hospital.
Since the 2002–2003 season, Ruka has regularly hosted World Cup competitions, and sometimes also hosts the Continental Cup.
The Palace of Auburn Hills' large number of luxury suites was a pioneer for the building boom of modern-style NBA arenas in the 1990s.
Bleachers range in size from small, modular, aluminum stands that can be moved around soccer or hockey fields to large permanent structures that flank each side of an American football field.
In 2005, Ai was invited by Wang Shu as an external teacher of the Architecture Department of China Academy of Art.
He placed in the "Top 15" of the 1928 lei tai; Wan Laisheng (1903–1995) of Northern Shaolin and Internal styles (including Natural Boxing); Fu Zhensong (1881–1953) of Baguazhang style; Wang Shaozhou (王绍周) of Northern Shaolin and Cha styles and Li Xianwu of Northern Shaolin and Internal styles.
Plans were drawn up and tenders for the supply of materials to build the hut were called for the following month.
In 1934, Dunn, Johnny Buckley, and Homer Rainault formed a fight syndicate known as the Sharkey Athletic Association.
Cages vary: some replace the metal fencing with a net, others have a different shape from an octagon, as the term "The Octagon" is trademarked by the UFC (although the 8-sided shape itself is not trademarked).
According to the book Chinese Fast Wrestling for Fighting: The Art of San Shou Kuai Jiao Throws, Takedowns, & Ground-Fighting, it was 24 x 24 feet (7.3 m) and 5 feet (1.5 m) high.
In the centers, expert dietitians prepare daily nutrition programs that will meet the energy and nutrient needs of athletes.
Canada has tracks in Hinton, Grande Prairie, and Calgary in Alberta, as well as a track at the Ontario Luge Club at the Calabogie Peaks resort.
Some activities played on a game court are enjoyable modifications of other sports (such as short-court tennis) that allow for similar skills to be developed as the 'regulation' game, but on a reduced-scale court size.
In 1933, he underwent an operation at the Newton Hospital and died the following week at the age of 50.
Thus it is an important source of information for planners and practitioners from all areas of sports facility construction (municipalities, architects and engineers, universities, trade associations and industrial companies).
In the lower levels, there were lodgings for soldiers of the "Karpaty" Regiment of the Border Defence Corps, with headquarters in Stryj.
The length of a superpipe ranges from 400 ft (120 m) to 600 ft (180 m), depending on available terrain and construction funding.
When an MMA or boxing bout concludes, the ring announcer announces the winner, time of finish and method.
With a height of 6.90 m (22.6 ft), this halfpipe has held the world record since the 2014–2015 season, and regularly hosts the LAAX Open.
The complex is host site of the Queen City Ex, as well as Canadian Western Agribition and Canada's Farm Show.
These events offer on-field demonstrations, group sessions, and peer interaction, and are free for members to attend.
Various media outlets produce their own figures and sometimes these do not agree, but the differences in the averages given are usually no more than one or two percent.
It had a display resolution of 450,000 pixels, using a new proprietary Sony technology called the Trini-lite.
There were also 3 Commonwealth Winter Games held in St Moritz 2 years after the summer Commonwealth Games, and 4 Commonwealth Paraplegic Games held immediately before and after the summer Commonwealth Games.
It was inaugurated on 19 October 2022 by Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendrabhai Patel and former deputy chief minister Nitin Patel.
For college baseball, Dudy Noble Field, Polk-DeMent Stadium at Mississippi State University holds the on-campus attendance record at 15,586 and all of college baseball's Top 11 on-campus largest crowds.
The normal hill was reconstructed about 40 m (130 ft) away from its original site, and the smaller hills further away.
The first notable indoor ice rink was made in 1876, by John Gamgee, in Chelsea along the north bank of the Thames River; it measured 24 by 40 feet.
Distribution Although ballcourts are found within most Mesoamerican sites, they are not equally distributed across time or geography.
Surbiton Hockey Club's minutes from 1876 stated that pitches were to be "100–150 yards (91–137 m) long and 50–80 yards (46–73 m) wide".
The Little League World Series uses standing room and berm seating at its events, with its flagship venue, Howard J.
Wrestling rings vary in shape and size, with most measuring between 14 and 20 feet (4.3 and 6.1 m) on each side.
Two Olympic jumps of K95 (HS102) and K125 (HS140) are constructed for these games with scheduled completion in 2011.
The complex's large hill is a K-120, alongside a normal hill K-95, with a K-56, K-30 and K-19 also onsite.
He also collaborated with USC Trojans baseball coach Rod Dedeaux, to bring former college players to Alberta.
Louis Melvin Jacobs (April 6, 1900 - August 8, 1968), was an American businessman and sports team owner.
All of the games on this list were held in stadiums designed for field sports such as association football, gridiron football, and baseball.
However, on a fast outfield the ball does not decelerate significantly even when rolling along the turf, often racing past the fielders and over the boundary rope.
The complex is now owned by David Lloyd Leisure, though the three-shell range remains disused as of 2025.
The retro-modern style climaxed in 2010 with the sculptured, contemporary exterior and canopy of Target Field, rendering it almost unrecognizable from the outside.
Structure Two night clubs are incorporated into the center, as well as numerous shops, coffeehouses, and restaurants.
The term pitch is most commonly used in British English, while the comparable term in Australian, American and Canadian English is playing field or sports field.
The park is popular for sports, and contains a number of facilities for not only running, but also soccer, tennis, volleyball, and basketball.
They are located mostly in Scotland, with a small number in England and Wales, and have extremely basic facilities - with no electricity, gas, or piped water.
The Werner-Rittberger-Halle (training hall for ice skating next to the Rheinlandhalle in Krefeld ) was shut down after the accident in Bad Reichenhall.
Perdue Stadium in Salisbury, Maryland Ben Hill Griffin Stadium in Gainesville, Florida Bob Ford Field in Albany, New York (set to open in 2013) Bobby Bowden Field at Doak Campbell Stadium in Tallahassee, Florida Boone Pickens Stadium in Stillwater, Oklahoma C.
Philip Cox unleashed - ABC radio "A decade in review", by Philip Cox, Australian Design Review, 20 December 2010
Starting in May 2020, the Nantou Branch of the Forestry Agency carried out a renovation project on the Tianchi Lodge for about four months, including exterior renovation, waterproofing, and surrounding facilities, in response to the policy of opening up the mountains and forests.
Baseball/softball Baseball and softball indoor practice facilities can have a marked infield, batting cages, drop down nets, portable pitchers mound, and pitching machines.
This is a list of ski jumping hills passing the International Ski and Snowboard Federation (FIS) rules, to be competition hills in FIS Ski Jumping World Cup, Continental Cup, and FIS Cup.
The figures generally represent the licensed capacity of the venue, which is usually far higher than the number of seats in the stands.
Anoeta Sports Complex (Spanish: Ciudad deportiva Anoeta; Basque: Anoetako kirolgunea) is a sports area located at the south of the city of Donostia (San Sebastián), Basque Country of Spain.
It has some of the characteristic features of a real tennis court, probably because many real tennis courts were converted to trinquetes in the 19th century.
Some Commonwealth competitions may be held outside the host metropolitan area, and in other regions of the host country.
It consists of a normal hill with a K-point of 90 and a hill size of 100, and nearby there are also a few smaller hills, one medium hill and three small hills, as part of the complex.
It is equipped with solar water heating panels (solar water heating system), a solar power generation system, and uses natural materials such as wood and gravel to replace premixed concrete.
Officials stated that once the tendering process is completed, construction work could begin immediately.
Up to 20 athletes could compete simultaneously on the tracks, but soon the tracks were reduced to 17.
Remaining amateurism requirements in the majority of top-level sports were dropped in the late 20th century, and there are now only a few amateur leagues which are of interest to a wide public.
A 2nd century BC inscription informs us on Satyr the Samian who performed a hymn "for the god and the Greeks" to the sound of the guitar.
The hotel has multiple restaurants: Shanghai Terrace, Pierrot Gourmet, The Lobby and Z Bar serving Cantonese/Shanghainese, European, American cuisine small plates, and Global cuisine shared plates respectively.
In Britain the word groundsman (occasionally groundswoman if appropriate) or park-keeper is used much more commonly.
He is the founding partner of Cox Architecture, one of the largest architectural practices in Australia.
Glass courts are installed in several European basketball arenas, including the BallsportArena Dresden, the OYM Performance Center in Switzerland, and an arena at the University of Oxford.
Newly built sporting venues often offer PSLs to help pay the debt incurred during the construction of the venue.
He felt that by appointing a commission, the government was avoiding an issue it could deal with directly.
The hill was renovated in 1991 and again before the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 1999, during which it was the venue for the ski jumping competitions from a large hill.
Large Matratzenlagers are divided into rooms with a maximum of 20-30 bedspaces in order to ensure a reasonable night's sleep.
However, if a batter is out of his ground (which can happen when he enters a ground that another batter is already occupying), he may be dismissed (prevented from further scoring) by being run out or stumped if the fielding team put down the wicket in his ground.
During five weeks in 1949 he arranged and promoted a welterweight boxing championship match between Sugar Ray Robinson and Kid Gavilán.
They are usually located in remote locations, far from serviced mountain huts and other accommodations.
On May 26, 2007, the NCAA playing rules committee agreed to move the three-point line back one foot to 20.75 feet for the men.
The association also stated that it had inadvertently received shipments, phone calls, and resumes from entities who thought Evraz Place was a company office.
As entry was permitted only with a special military pass, local Hutsuls made up several legends about the building and its inhabitants.
Examples Count Henry Russell-Killough, the "hermit of the Pyrenees", is broadly accredited with the invention of the bivouac in extreme, inhospitable places.
Redgra also saw use in playground football, youth clubs, and some women's and lower-tier men's football clubs into the 1990s.
Wind flags are not always actual flags, sometimes streamers are used, small triangle flags, or even pinwheels.
In November 2015, it was announced that the facility would be named the BioSteel Centre, after corporate sponsor BioSteel Sports Nutrition.
Additionally, the manager reserves the right to pull the on-deck hitter for a substitute at his discretion.
The High Court announced verdict in which it ordered the state Government to show reports about the project and to explain the explanation of the allegation of "destruction of greenery".
Warning notices will be displayed and a website maintains up-to-date access arrangements throughout Scotland.
The ceremony is done to purify and consecrate the dohyō, while also inviting the kami (Shinto deities) down to watch sumo.
The warning tracks in Major League Parks are roughly 16 feet (5 m) wide, while the warning track in Olympic stadiums are roughly 20 feet (6 m) wide, and on softball fields are often 10 feet (3 m).
Ice skating rink The ice skating rink formed the northeastern part of the facility, and there was an underground car park under the ice skating area.
By leaning forward, the jumper will naturally start to glide down the prepared tracks along the in-run.
Since 2017, National Federation of State High School Association rules have required each state's governing body to adopt a daily pitch limit.
Background Heath was born in LaCrosse, Wisconsin, and raised in Minnesota, where he attended Powell's Academy.
The Hangzhou Yuhang International Sports Center (Chinese: 杭州余杭国际体育中心), often shortened to simply Yuhang International Sports Center, is an under-construction sports complex which includes a 60,000-seat football-specific stadium in Yuhang, Hangzhou, China.
Purpose and facilities They provide hikers and climbers with accommodation and shelter, mainly in the Alpine region.
The NCAA championships listed here are all composed of several separate conferences with varying attendance levels.
Etymology The word "hippodrome" is derived from Ancient Greek hippódromos (Greek: ἱππόδρομος), a stadium for horse racing and chariot racing.
In 1926, Bolles graduated as a civil engineer from the University of Oklahoma, and graduated from Harvard University with a master's degree in architecture in 1932.
In 2022 it was announced that a new arena in the nearby town, Svendborg was planned to serve as the home arena for GOG Håndbold as well as the basketball team Svendborg Rabbits.
Under the terms of the lease agreement, MLSE paid the CA$30 million construction cost of the facility and parking lot.
By either estimation this is the worst accident, with respect to the number of lives lost, to occur at a Grand Prix, and the second-deadliest in motor racing history, being surpassed by the 1955 Le Mans disaster.
As of 2025, it is also used by Wieczysta Kraków due to their stadium not meeting I liga requirements.
The annual CNE Lions Club youth baseball tournament, which had been played at the diamond, was moved to Coronation Park, east of Exhibition Place, as an interim measure.
In Europe, the largest swimming pool opened in 1934 in Elbląg (Poland), providing a water area of 33,500 square metres (361,000 sq ft).
In professional wrestling, the variations are much more numerous and so the announcer may have to explain significantly more to the audience.
MLSE requested that the City exempt the portion of the facility that is available to the public (32%) from city taxes.
In 1934 Lapham purchased the rival Garden, and named Brown as its general manager and vice president.
Currently the structure is used as a mountain shelter with a small search and rescue team with some rooms adapted for lodging and recovery.
Arguments for and against safe standing A range of arguments are put forward in favour of all-seating and against the return of standing areas to the top divisions of football in England and Wales.
On May 18, 1964, Hewitt cut the ceremonial ribbon at the Hockey Hall of Fame, to unveil CAHA plaques which commemorated the association's 50th anniversary.
Its extraverted architectural projection integrated with the street and introduced the concept of a 'High Street' with 'Piazzas,' inspired by traditional architecture.
Czech Republic hosted six of the top 30 most attended tournaments (including three tournaments held in Czechoslovakia) as well as three of the top 5 attended tournaments.
List of ice rinks in Hong Kong Former Rinks History 1972: The first ice rink In a subtropical city like Hong Kong, there is no ice and snow in winter.
For running tracks, many cinder surfaces have been replaced by all-weather synthetic surfaces, which provide greater durability and more consistent results, and are less stressful on runners.
By 2016 a go-kart track and a drag strip had been opened with Jorge Lorenzo in attendance, as circuit construction was well underway.
Much of the research focuses on exploiting a need for vicarious achievement, and a desire within the spectator to project a public image through a declaration of team allegiance.
The ceiling structures then collapsed on a parked vehicle, further expanding the fire to other parked vehicles.
A large number of sporting organisations have issued debentures to raise money, to allow their fans to gain a financial stake in the club, to foster a sense of community, and in some cases to fund new construction.
With the arrival of indoor ice hockey arenas, it was a way for bandy players to practice on ice for a longer time through the year by making use of the new indoor facilities.
A palaestrophylax or palaistrophulax (παλαιστροφύλαξ) was the guardian or the director of a palaestra.
In January 2012, in its International Review issue Art in America magazine featured an interview with Ai Weiwei at his home in China.
Some oval tracks are variations on an oval shape, for practical reasons or to introduce varying difficulties such as Talladega (a tri-oval).
It is named for October's Very Own, the Canadian lifestyle brand and record label founded by rapper Aubrey "Drake" Graham, talent manager Oliver El-Khatib, and record producer Noah "40" Shebib.
However, unlike in the United States, an NFL team has never been based primarily in Canada (though the Buffalo Bills played some home games in Toronto between 2008 and 2013) and only two MLB teams have been based there.
At its peak, the ranch consisted of about 1 million acres and had between 20,000 and 50,000 head of cattle.
A new arena built next to Parken Stadium in Copenhagen was expected to be completed by December 2010.
The first documented play in Canada is at Perdue, Saskatchewan, on March 5, 1909, though the game has also been observed to have been played by organized girls teams in the province of Ontario in the early 1900s.
He was reelected in June 1953, but two months later, the Flyers folded and Jones resigned as league president.
In 1969, the Horatio Alger Association of Distinguished Americans honored Deaton by naming him to its membership.
However, due to concerns regarding pitch conditions and overall readiness, the club's home matches were relocated to Bolpur Stadium in the neighbouring Birbhum district.
The Hanoi Circuit or Hanoi Street Circuit (Vietnamese: Trường đua đường phố Hà Nội) is a motor racing venue located in the Nam Từ Liêm district of Hanoi, the capital of Vietnam.
In some arenas the sideboards of the hockey rink feature three or four LED displays the size of one advertising hoarding which will show scoring information and promotional messages, though their limited visibility makes them rarely used.
American football bleachers are commonly made from concrete or aluminum with concrete footings or superstructure underneath.
Sports teams ownership Louis began his sports ownership in 1939 when he became a partner of the Syracuse Stars after being the concessions vendor to New York State Fair Coliseum.
When Taruffi arrived back in Brescia, he was dueling with von Trips but had a three-minute advantage over him due to a later start time.
He designed the futuristic Sculptured House on Genesee Mountain near Denver, Colorado that was featured in the Woody Allen movie Sleeper.
Seven spectators died and around 21 people were admitted to the hospital after sustaining critical injuries.
His was given Life Fellowship to the RAIA in 1987 and Honorary Fellowship of the American Institute of Architects in the same year.
For this purpose, as well as to keep the mountain huts and trails clean, the Austrian Alpine Clubs (ÖAV) and German Alpine Clubs (DAV) launched the Clean Mountains campaign in 2005.
From 2009 to 2012, it was home to the Quebec Kebs basketball franchise in the National Basketball League of Canada.
It is owned by the state of Honduras and managed by the National Commission for Sporting Installations (CONAPID), within a monthly budget of 10 million lempiras.
The US Open is played on Laykold while the Australian Open is played on GreenSet, both acrylic-topped hardcourt surfaces.
As they are informal titles, mentioning names of eminent singers without those appendages is acceptable, unlike prefixes like Dr.
He drew parallels between Baltic kriwe and Celtic druids and suggested that the common elements could be a result of either migration or date to the common Indo-European roots.
They paid certain ecclesiastical tributes, and seem to have closely resembled the termonn lands of the early Irish Church.
In the Zohar In Zoharistic Kabbalah, she is a queen of the demons and an angel of sacred prostitution, who mates with archangel Samael along with Lilith and Naamah, sometimes adding Eisheth as a fourth mate.
Other traditions According to Ulrich von Schroeder, Tibet has different traditions relating to the mahasiddhas.
Gossain, Gosain, Gosine, Gosyne, Gosein, or Gossai is a Hindi word derived from Sanskrit: गोस्वामी, romanized: gōsvāmī, lit.
Maimonides ruled that the hazzan who recited the prayers on an ordinary Shabbat and on weekdays need not possess an appearance pleasing to everybody.
According to Vishnumitra of Champa town, the commentator of Uvaṭa's commentary of Ṛgveda-Prātiśākhya, Ṛgveda-Prātiśākhya is attributed to Shaunaka who taught it to others in a satra-yajna (a 12-day very large scale collective yajna) held in Naimisha.
The Executive Minister along with Deputy Executive Minister and 11 other Senior Ministers (The Sanggunian or The Advisory Council of the Church) forms the Church's Central Administration.
In Burma, an eight precept nun is addressed as thilashin or sayalay, whereas a fully ordained woman is called a rahan-ma ("female monk").
Christian usage refers to Jesus Christ as the only high priest, for example in Catholic teaching he is described as "high priest of the new and eternal covenant".
See also Auscultation Notes References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
Ìyánífá is a Yoruba word that can be translated as "mother (ìyá) has or of (ní) Ifá" or "mother in Ifá" and is the Yoruba title for mother of mysteries and the female equivalent of a babalawo.
Notable persons Kumaran Asan, one of the triumvirate poets of modern Kerala References External links Media related to Aasaan at Wikimedia Commons
The women lost their public reputation, their sense of shame, and even the ability to feel love or emotions.
Kavi Santokh Singh, in Suraj Prakash, describes this moment: Arrived at Hari Mandir, ragis were singing in rags’s high notes.
In other communities, a separate labor force of "lay brothers" or conversi was cultivated in order to handle the temporal business of the abbey.
The role of the mashgiach ruchani was strongest in the era before World War II, when often the mashgichim were responsible for maintaining the yeshiva financially, recruiting and interviewing new students, and hiring staff, something akin to academic deans.
In England, in 2012, Rabbi Ephraim Mirvis, the country's chief rabbi, appointed Lauren Levin as Britain's first Orthodox female halakhic adviser, at Finchley United Synagogue in London.
Abthain (or abthane) is an English or Lowland Scots form of the middle-Latin word abthania (Gaelic abdhaine), meaning abbacy.
In fact, the word gala was written using the sign sequence UŠ.KU, the first sign having also the reading g̃iš3 ("penis") & nita ("male"), and the second one bed3 ("anus") & dur2 ("buttocks"), meaning that might be a pun involved.
See also Satala Aphrodite Anahita Aramazd Astghik Vahagn Hayk Anat Sarpanit References Bibliography Boyce, Mary (1983), "Anāhīd", Encyclopædia Iranica, vol.
The Dharmasūtras and Dharmaśāstras give a number of detailed but widely divergent guidelines on renunciation.
Greek muftiates Office of the Grand Mufti of India (Barelvism) Office of the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Kazakh muftiates Kosovar muftiates Kyrgyz muftiates Lithuanian muftiates Macedonian muftiates Malaysia Malaysia has a unique system of collective mufti.
In Afghanistan and Pakistan, the title is given to graduates of a madrasa or Islamic school, who are then able to become a mosque leader, a teacher at a religious school, a local judge in a village or town, or to perform religious rituals.
However in the modern era they instead memorise the founding books of each field (sometimes in the form of poetry to aid memorisation).
Many Mahasiddhas practiced specific tantras, for example Brahman Kukkuripa (34th in Abhyadatta's list) of Kapilaśakru practiced Cakrasaṃvara Tantra, Monk Virūpa (3) of Somapuri practiced Hevajra for 12 years, Monk Karṇaripa (Aryadeva) (18) of Nālandā practiced Guhyasamāja.
History In 1788, the Russian Empire under Empress Catherine II established the first muftiate in Russia, named “The Orenburg Muslim Spiritual Assembly”, governed by a supreme mufti who oversaw the appointment of imams and the management of mosques across the empire.
Mithridates VI claimed to be a direct descendant of Alexander the Great and had fought against the Roman Generals: Sulla, Lucullus, and Pompey.
It is especially the name of a celebrated Sanskrit grammarian, author of the Ṛgveda-Prātiśākhya, the Bṛhaddevatā, the Caraṇa-vyūha, six Anukramaṇīs (indices) to the Rigveda, and the Vidhāna of the Rigveda.
In 1998, at the age of 29, he renounced worldly life and took Sanyas (monastic vows) under the guidance of his guru, Jagadguru Sri Sri Sri Dr.
The Ottoman Empire had a similar territorial division called a kadiluk, which was more concerned with justice and taxation than religion.
Based on hadiths, the period of time between Shu'ayib ibn Salih's resurrection and al-Mahdi reappearance is 72 months; and Shu'ayb ibn Salih's uprising is going to be after Awf-al-Silmi's uprising and likewise before Sufyani's insurrection.
Some songs summon the spirits, and others tell the spirits it is time to leave and end the ceremony.
Jehovah's Witnesses Among Jehovah's Witnesses, an elder is a man appointed to teach the congregation.
Above the seven amarkolim were two catholici, and these again were under the supervision of the high priest.
Among these traditions, two were particularly popular, namely the Abhayadatta Sri list and the so-called Vajrasana list.
The first literary reference to a volkhv occurs in the Primary Chronicle under the year 912; there, a volkhv predicts Prince Oleg's death.
These were traditionally Muftis who used interpretation (ijtihad) to clarify Islamic law, but in many modern secular contexts, Islamic law is no longer the law of the land.
They are: Manibhadra, the Perfect Wife Lakshmincara, The Princess of Crazy wisdom Mekhala, the elder of the 2 Headless Sisters Kanakhala, the younger of the 2 Headless Sisters List of the Mahasiddhas In Vajrayana Buddhism there are eighty-four Mahasiddhas.
According to the myth they could "spiritually communicate," i.e., travel to trading ports and see who would come to trade.
On 22 October 2009 Ajahn Brahm facilitated an ordination ceremony for bhikkhunis where four female Buddhists, Venerable Ajahn Vayama, and Venerables Nirodha, Seri and Hasapanna, were ordained into Ajahn Brahm's lineage.
He enjoys Shamhat for "six days and seven nights" (a fragment found in 2015 and read in 2018 appears to indicate that they had two weeks of sexual intercourse, with a break spent in discussion about Enkidu's future life in Uruk).
Acharya is a Sanskrit word meaning "teacher", so Shankaracharya means a "teacher in the tradition of Shankara".
Nonetheless, Freund's theories have been widely dismissed in academic circles, and the symbol is not much more than a typical warrior shield engraved in the Southwestern Stelae from the Iberian Peninsula, of which there are many examples.
Modern public fatwas have addressed and sometimes sparked controversies in the Muslim world and beyond.
Their purpose is to offer religious church services, counseling, and moral support to the armed forces, whether in peacetime or at war.
Later, after the spirits were cast into the lamp, Agrat bat Mahlat and her lamp were discovered by King David.
In Israel, Conservative/Masorti Judaism has not extended Torah honors either to a bat Kohen or to a bat Levi.
He shall be director of the choir and perform such other duties that the Board of directors may prescribe.
Protodeacon derives from the Greek proto- meaning 'first' and diakonos, which is a standard ancient Greek word meaning "assistant", "servant", or "waiting-man".
They provided nearly 300 units of LPG gas tanks and cooking stoves to displaced families to replace more dangerous portable kerosene stoves.
In medieval India, it was more narrowly used as a technical term for one who had gone through a specific initiation.
He also heads the Permanent Committee for Scholarly Research and Ifta, which oversees the preparation and issuance of official fatwas and conducts scholarly research on Islamic jurisprudence and theology.
In the Mandaean diaspora, shgandas, or alternatively learned laymen called yalufa, often perform minor priestly roles due to shortages of tarmida and ganzibra priests abroad.
The style was most common west of the Appalachian Mountains, where American settlement pushed westward throughout the 19th century.
Apart from the four, another monastery, Kanchi Kamkoti Peetham in South India, is also believed to have been established by Adi Shankara.
Some distinguished sayadaws would often be referred to as a sayadawgyi (ဆရာတော်ကြီး, as a sign of reverence.
The melamed was not allowed to punish his pupils too severely; and he had to teach both in the daytime and during part of the night.
in 1663), it is explained that Mahalath was daughter to Ishmael and his wife, who was herself daughter of Egyptian sorcerer Kasdiel.
See also Abu al-Barakat al-Nasafi Habib al-Rahman al-A'zami Shaykh al-Islām Seghatoleslam List of ayatollahs List of maraji == References ==
British period In the British ruling period, Islamic scholars noted Ahmed Raza Khan Barelvi who was the spiritual leader of Indian Muslims, scholar and revivalist.
Opposition to Luria Luria's Talmudic explanation that put a damper on the legitimacy of Jewish priests was not readily accepted amongst some scholars.
Shu'ayb bin Salih (Persian: شعیب بن صالح) or Saleh-ibn-Shu'ayb(or Shu'aib ibn Salih) is prophesied to rebel before the al-Mahdi's reappearance and his uprising is among the signs of the reappearance of the twelfth and final Imam of Shia Islam, the Mahdi according to some Islamic narrations.
Freund argued that a stele found at Cancho Roano displayed an image with concentric circles that matches Plato's description of Atlantis.
The ceremony is often very draining for the yuwipi man because of the focus needed to interact with the spirits and because the spirits use his life energy to heal the participants.
The permanent diaconate can be conferred on single men 25 or older, and on married men 35 or older, but an older age can be required by the episcopal conference.
Ramana Maharshi (1879–1950) was an "Indian sage" with a philosophy about the path to self-knowledge and the integration of personality espoused in books by author Paul Brunton and Ramana's own writings such as the Collected Works (1969) and Forty Verses on Reality (1978).
Controversies Army Chief of Chaplains The Office of the Chief of Chaplains was created by the National Defense Act of 1920 in order to better organize the chaplaincy; the position was first held by John T.
Muni (Sanskrit: मुनि, "silent") is a term for types of ancient Indian sages and hermits or ancient Indian ascetics.
Sages of this type are said to know the truth of existence not on the basis of scientific or religious texts but through their own realization.
While youth ministry was previously considered a stepping stone on the way to becoming priests, nuns and other important vocations, the trend is currently moving toward treating it as its own vocation.
In some countries, it is given as a surname to those of great knowledge in religious affairs, by a prestigious religious leader from a chain of Sufi scholars.
The first Landesrabbiner of whom there is authentic record is Judah Löw ben Bezaleel, of whom his contemporary David Gans says that he was for 20 years (1553–73) the spiritual head ("ab bet din") of all the Jewish congregations in the province of Moravia ("Ẓemaḥ Dawid", year 5352).
She also needed the knowledge of the several names of the kami that were important for her village, as well as their function.
The Greek word εὐαγγέλιον originally meant a reward given to the messenger for good news (εὔ = "good", ἀγγέλλω = "I bring a message"; the word "angel" comes from the same root) and later "good news" itself.
Singing and choirs were introduced without much controversy, but when it came to the organ, synagogues were more hesitant, even negative.
The term pontiff was later applied to any high or chief priest and, in Catholic ecclesiastical usage, to bishops, especially the Pope, who is sometimes referred to as the Roman Pontiff or the Supreme Pontiff.
Max" or "P.M." The office of Pontifex Maximus, or head of the College of Pontiffs, was held by Julius Caesar and thereafter, by the Roman emperors, until Gratian (375–383) relinquished it.
They also have the authority to consecrate new idols, though they occasionally appoint scholars to carry out this duty.
The purpose of the monastic life is union with God, the means is through leaving the world (i.e., the life of the passions).
Description and functions Genesis The main informations on the Slavic priesthood concerns the priesthood of the Polabian Slavs.
This medicinal heritage remains a cornerstone of the Yoruba diaspora; for example, in Brazilian Candomblé, the ritualistic use of "sacred leaves" continues to be the primary method for maintaining community health.
Vidutana, strong shamans standing in contact with the upper world Yanyani tadebya, shamans belonging to the earth Sambana shamans, shamans able to receive messages from dead people and to perform other rituals concerning the dead.
Non-Muslim usage The Kitáb-i-Íqán, the primary theological work of the Baháʼí Faith, applies the title Commander of the Faithful to Ali, the son-in-law of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
The Deuteronomic Code is the name given by academics to the law code set out in chapters 12 to 26 of the Book of Deuteronomy in the Hebrew Bible.
The prototype of this new type of rabbinical leader and educator was Rabbi Nosson Tzvi Finkel (1849-1927) known as the Alter (elder) of the Slabodka yeshiva, Yeshivas Knesses Yisrael (Slabodka), in Lithuania.
Following the example of Deoband, thousands of madrasas were founded during the late 19th century which adopted the Deobandi way of studying fundamental texts of Islam and commenting on Quran and Hadith.
Sex is viewed by them as a transcendence from a personal, intimate act to something impersonal and ascetic.
Today Buddhists make a decent proportion of several countries in the West such as New Zealand, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, France, and the United States.
The title "Hujjat al-Islam" is given to scholars with a high level of Islamic expertise and Islamic theology.
In 2019, nine foreigners were given the title Mahamandaleshwar for the first time at the Kumbh Mela.
At present, these are family lineage holders such as the great lamas of the Nyingma tradition, Minling Trichen Rinpoche and Sakya Trizin, the throne holder of the Dharma Potrang lineage.
The Ifa Odu Odi Ogbe speaks of a woman divining and performing ritual sacrifice for Orunmila by the name Eruko-ya-l'egan o d'Oosa also known as Orisa Oke.
Views Twelver Shi'ism Twelver Shias apply the title exclusively to Ali, the cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad, regarded as the first Imam by Shia Muslims and officially designated successor (caliph) to Muhammad.
Grand Mufti is the title for the leading Islamic jurist of a country, typically Sunni, who may oversee other muftis.
Though the cantor's relationship to the new synagogue had been tenuous—at times eliminated altogether—CCAR's endorsement of the Union Hymnal also endorsed the role of the modern cantor: a trained musician familiar with Jewish tradition and sensitive to the needs of his community.
The newly elected abbot was to put off his shoes at the door of the church, and proceed barefoot to meet the members of the house advancing in a procession.
Athleta Christi (Latin: "Champion of Christ") was a class of Early Christian soldier martyrs or military saints, of whom the most familiar examples are Saint Sebastian and Saint George.
With the Cluniac Reforms, the term prior received a specific meaning; it supplanted the provost or dean (praepositus), spoken of in the Rule of St.
A Granthi must be able to interpret the sacred hymns written in the Guru Granth Sahib, referred to as Gurbani, and must be able to fluently deliver sermons to the Sangat at the Gurdwara.
[it is] an opportunity to serve." The church uses a lay clergy, with most members receiving no compensation for the execution of their callings.
He focussed his criticism both at those who use religious law as contemporary political proscription and at the history of rulers claiming legitimacy by the caliphate.
Depending on the size of the school and the status of the institution to which it was attached, the scholaster might be the only teacher, the head of a considerable educational establishment, or have oversight over all the schools in their city or territory.
Older grihastha with grown-up children are traditionally expected to accept vanaprastha (celibate retired) life.
Priest is the oldest, a borrowing into Old English via Latin, elder (first attested 1526) is a translation of the underlying meaning of the Greek word, and presbyter (1597) is a learned correction of the loan-word.
Retention in online communities is about making sure that the newcomers stick around and stay long enough to become more committed members, who take on more important responsibilities and begin to be identify themselves with the group.
Circuit preaching became common during and between the Second Great Awakening and Third Great Awakening in the United States.
During tarmida initiation ceremonies, shgandas, who represent emissaries from the World of Light, also help perform the rituals, many of which are held in a specially constructed priest initiation hut (škinta) and also a nearby temporary reed hut (andiruna).
The Dominican Order is officially known as the Order of Preachers (Ordo Praedicatorum in Latin); friars of this order were trained to publicly preach in vernacular languages, and the order was created by Saint Dominic to preach to the Cathars of southern France in the early thirteenth century.
Adolf Büchler has shown by referring to Josephus, Against Apion 2:8, that certain Temple officers handed the keys of the Temple to their successors each day, as a symbol of their charge — and these were none others than the amarkolim; who were, however, laymen and not priests.
Himmat Singh, one of the original Panj Piare of Sikhism was believed to be his reincarnation (avtar).
Additionally, some sources call al-Yamani "Mansour" and indicate he will assist Muhammad al-Mahdi in battle.
In the early medieval period, there was also mention of lay brothers attached to convents of women and of lay sisters attached to monasteries.
The sermon or homily has been an important part of Christian services since Early Christianity, and remains prominent in both Roman Catholicism and Protestantism.
For example, the Unitarian Universalist Association reserves the title of "the reverend" for ordained ministers.
In the early Christian church, this same concept was used to describe role of the bishop, who was responsible for seeing to it that the catechumens were properly prepared for baptism.
The meeting was to resolve any disputes over the management of shrine and set-out the framework for managing them, with the meeting being attended also by Deputy Commissioner Cooper.
Hindu, Jain, Tantric, Yogic and Vajrayana Buddhist traditions use the term sadhaka or sādhak for spiritual initiates and/or aspirants.
Those who left for the desert formed an alternate Christian society when becoming a Christian was no longer risky.
The coarb of Columba In medieval Ireland and Scotland, the coarb of St Columba (Medieval Gaelic comarba Coluim Chille) identified the abbots who succeeded Columba.
Pinkas (Account Book): A record book detailing funds collected and pledged by communities and individuals.
Various other titles like Munīndra (Sanskrit; Pali: Muninda; meaning "lord of Munis"), Munivar (Greatest among Munis), Munirāja (King of Munis), Munīśvara (Sanskrit; Pali: Munissaro; meaning "lord of Munis"), Mahāmuni (The great[est] Muni) are also given to the Buddhas.
These performances also feature symbols connected to the Passion of Jesus: the sistrum's swaying and the beating of the drums represent Christ's swaying while enduring beatings, and the tapping of the prayer sticks represent the flagellation of Christ.
Abbots in art and literature "The Abbot" is one of the archetypes traditionally illustrated in scenes of Danse Macabre.
Role of the cantor Judaism In Judaism, a cantor sings and leads congregants in prayer in religious services.
Allamah (Arabic: عَلَّامَة) is an Islamic honorary title for a profound scholar, a polymath, a man of vast reading and erudition, or a great learned one.
The structure of Russian- and south-eastern European muftiates were never prescribed by Islamic doctrine, but instead are based on the principle of an all-encompassing legal and administrative order in parallel fashion to Christian dioceses with the purpose of regulating the Islamic religion.
Usage Since the 15th century, the title has been a political one, granted by Popes to men who have led military campaigns defending Christianity.
Biblical sources The term does not occur in the Bible as a noun, though the verb lishloach ("to send") is frequently used to describe sending a messenger or agent.
The Ashkenazi, Sefardi, Chabad (Lubavitch), and Mizrahi Jews each have their own script for forming the letters, though the same rules apply throughout the text.
Description A rajarshi may be described as a king (raja) who adopts a path of devotion, thereby becoming a royal sage (rishi).
The term Saṃnyasa makes appearance in the Samhitas, Aranyakas, and Brahmanas, the earliest layers of Vedic literature (2nd millennium BCE), but it is rare.
Cypriot women, called Propoetides, were forced to act as prostitutes for Aphrodite, and these women acted as surrogates to Aphrodite in that through these sexual activities they were generating fertility for Cyprus.
See also Anagārika Dasa sil mata Donchee Maechi Siladhara Order Upāsaka and Upāsikā References == External links ==
Today, marabout means "saint" in the Berber languages and in general refers to Sufi Muslim teachers who head a lodge or school called a zāwiya associated with a specific school or tradition, called a ṭarīqah "way, path" (Arabic: طريقه).
Religious officiants, commonly referred to as celebrants, are usually ordained by a religious denomination as members of the clergy, and charged with conducting worship services and other religious ceremonies.
There is no formal ceremony for the clothing of a novice; he or she is simply given the riassa, belt and skoufos.
There are also specific youth-oriented programs, such as Coming of Age, and Our Whole Lives, a lifespan sexuality education program with a youth age group.
In the Anglican Church of Canada, the roles of senior cleric of the cathedral are combined in one person who is referred to as "Rector of Cathedral and Dean of Diocese".
Although there are some poskim in the Conservative movement (e.g., Louis Ginzberg, David Golinkin, Joel Roth, and Elliot Dorff), the rulings of any one individual rabbi are considered less authoritative than a consensus ruling.
Their hymns were sung in a Sumerian dialect known as eme-sal, normally used to render the speech of female gods, and some gala took feminine names and roles.
The Culavamsa refers to a bhāṇaka as late as the 13th century CE, but by this date the term may have become generic for a preacher or specialist in recitation, rather than a monk who preserved a significant portion of the canon by memory.
He attended a selection panel, but withdrew from the process because, he later wrote, he did not want a career which would have to be pursued in secret.
However, this did not formally ban chaplains from bearing arms; medical personnel were regularly allowed to maintain weapons to defend themselves, but could not use them for offensive action.
Although one does not need to be an ordained Rabbi to be a Rebbe, most Rebbes today are ordained Rabbis.
The latter are not necessarily shamans, and their function is merely to hold sacrifices (the word zhrets literally means "sacrificer", from Proto-Slavic *žьrti, and is cognate of Slavic words for "offering").
Placed Grinth [Braj form of 'Granth'] with manji, then Guru own-self sat nearby.31 Listened to [Asa-ki-]Var with focused mind, then at end revered Arjan spoke.
In the Eastern Orthodox, Eastern Lutheran and Eastern Catholic traditions of Christianity, a poustinik is a temporary hermit who has been called to pray and fast alone in a cabin for at least 24 hours.
Its use specifically for the pope appears in the 13th century in connection with the reforms of Pope Innocent III, as can be observed already in his 1199 letter to Leo I, King of Armenia.
Tibetan Buddhism contains two systems of ordination, the familiar monastic ordinations and the less well known ngakpa or Tantric ordinations.
There were also various subtypes of babaylan specializing in the arts of healing and herbalism, divination, and sorcery.
The Grand Imam of al-Azhar is considered, by most Muslims, to be the highest authority in Sunni Islamic thought and Islamic jurisprudence and holds great influence on followers of the theological Ash'ari and Maturidi traditions worldwide.
Following its destruction, it seems that most of them joined the Synagogal Jewish movement before adopting gradually Rabbinic Judaism, other types of Judaism, Christianity or Islam.
However, in response to the growing number of Wiccan temples and churches, several denominations of the religion have begun to develop a core group of ordained priestesses and priests serving a larger laity.
The Pure Standards of the Chan Monastery states; "The tenzo functions as the one who makes offerings with reverence to the monks." Since ancient times this office has been held by realized monks or by senior disciples who have roused the enlightened.
In Russia and in other parts of the former Soviet Union, a muhtasibat is directly subordinate to a qadiyat.
Another example of Rajarshi is King Janaka, who is said to have attained self-Knowledge from the ascetic sage Astavakra.
In most cases the members are self-supporting and live alone, but follow the same Rule of life, and meet together frequently in assemblies often known as 'Chapter meetings'.
According to the evangelicals, freedom of religion and freedom of expression allow them to discuss their faith like they would discuss other topics.
All instruction was communicated orally, but for ordinary purposes, Caesar reports, the Gauls had a written language in which they used Greek letters.
Scribes reviewed queries directed to Ottoman muftis and rewrote them to facilitate the issuing of fatwas.
Except for presiding and delegating administrative tasks, they have no authority over the cardinals, acting as primus inter pares (first among equals).
He wrote that every woman, who were titled “horae,” must go to Aphrodite’s temple and have intercourse with a stranger at least once and then receive money from the stranger as a sacred act.
Many secular celebrants conduct the whole range of ceremonies which mark the milestones of human life.
Swedish priests supported conviction of noaidis for sorcery, and in 1693, Lars Nilsson was executed for this charge.
'a man of prayer'; and from the Anglo-Saxon bed), was generally a pensioner or almsman whose duty was to pray for his benefactor.
This is a huge amount of material to have mastery over and will take years of dedicated study to achieve.
References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chambers, Ephraim, ed.
A darshan (Hebrew: דַּרְשָׁן) or baal darshan (Hebrew: בַּעַל־דַּרְשָׁן) is a Jewish scriptural interpreter.
A lay leader is a member of the laity in any congregation who has been chosen as a leader either by their peers or the leadership of the congregation.
The root of the word "Maddah" is "Madh" which means expressing the excellent traits of a character or a thing.
England In consequence of its use in this general sense of pensioner, "bedesman" was long used in English as equivalent to "servant." The word had a special sense as the name for those almsmen attached to cathedrals and other churches, whose duty it was to pray for the souls of deceased benefactors.
Catholicism Hinduism Islam Judaism Neopaganism Raëlism Scientology Serer Zoroastrianism See also List of religious topics List of education topics == References ==
Their lives were oriented not to the ancient monastic way of life, but more to social service and to evangelization, both in Europe and in mission areas.
In gamer culture, a newbie is an inexperienced player with a low level, rank, or in-game abilities but wants to participate and improve, and a noob is a bad player who seems disinterested in learning or teamwork and trolls other players.
This is the case judged concerning which you both inquire." (Quran 12:35–41) Location Doing daʿwah in the right location.
"Locating Transcendence in Japanese Minzoku Geinô: Yamabushi and Miko Kagura," Ethnologies 25.1:191–208.
Tsangpa Gyare was recognized as the Bodhisattva of Great Compassion Avalokiteśvara in human form, as well as an incarnation of the first Buddhist King of Tibet, Songtsän Gampo, of the great saint Naropa and of Milarepa's sun-like disciple Gampopa.
In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the novitiate is officially set at three years before one may be tonsured a monk or nun, though this requirement may be waived.
Kshatriyakulavatans Chhatrapati Maharaj Maharani Peshwa PratapRao Appa Sardar Deshmukh Patil Rao Sikh honorific Sardar Sardarni Giani Nepali (Gorkhali) honorifics Associated with the Khas Kings of Nepal, esp.
Although the title Mahdi was not applied to him, his career as the anti-caliph significantly influenced the future development of the concept.
Hayyim Joseph David Azulai (1724–1806): the Levant and Europe (including Egypt, Amsterdam, England, and Livorno, for 56 years.
The Gala (Sumerian: 𒍑𒆪, romanized: gala, Akkadian: kalû) were priests of the Sumerian goddess Inanna.
Irvingism New Apostolic Church The New Apostolic Church (NAC) teaches three classes of ministries: deacons, priests and apostles.
Ben Sheshet explained that such a kohen is not entitled to the kohen's extra honor, even if his priestly lineage was verified, and "all the more so today's kohen who possess no lineage document".
As a result, there have always been greater or lesser disputes about the legitimacy and authority of rabbis.
A person under the age of 20 cannot be ordained as a bhikkhu or bhikkhuni but can be ordained as a śrāmaṇera or śrāmaṇērī.
This word describes someone engaged in advanced study of the traditional Islamic sciences (`ulum) at an Islamic university or madrasah jami`ah.
An achar (Khmer: អាចារ្យ, achary [ʔaːcaː]) or achar wat (Khmer: អាចារ្យវត្ត, achary vôtt [ʔaːcaː ʋŏət]) is a lay Buddhist upāsaka who becomes a ritual specialist and takes on the role of master of ceremonies in various religious rites in Cambodia.
The infallibility promised to the Church resides also in the body of Bishops, when that body exercises the supreme magisterium with the successor of Peter.
Daʿwah (Arabic: دعوة, Arabic: [ˈdaʕwah], "invitation", also spelt dâvah, daawa, dawah, daawah or dakwah) is the act of proselytizing people to Islam.
Budin regards the concept of sacred prostitution as a myth, arguing taxatively that the practices described in the sources were misunderstandings of either non-remunerated ritual sex or non-sexual religious ceremonies, possibly even mere cultural slander.
UK Chaplains are drawn from a range of faith and belief backgrounds, and are not necessarily ordained or a recognised faith leader.
Amarakosha (the famous Sanskrit synonym lexicon compiled by Amarasimha) mentions seven types of riṣis : Shrutarshi, Kāndarshi, Paramarshi, Maharshi, Rājarshi, Brahmarshi and Devarshi.
In other words, only a hieromonk who has been tonsured into the Great Schema may himself tonsure a Schemamonk.
Kappiya may also assist in other capacities, including carrying alms bowls during morning alms collection, and preparing food for monks.
Temple prostitution The Temple of Aphrodite at Acrocorinth is above all famous for the unverified claims of the temple prostitution of courtesans, which were alleged to be dedicated to the service of the temple, and contributed to the attraction of visitors to the city of Corinth.
Bya rog prog zhu, The raven crest: the life and teachings of bDe chen 'od gsal rdo rje treasure revealer of contemporary Tibet (PhD).
They made up a significant number of the personnel of both temples and palaces, the central institutions of Mesopotamian city-states.
Additionally, the Government does not grant special tax preferences to religious organizations operating print or broadcast media.
Bad purposes) written in The Objective, calling Lalachus "Bitelchús", and saying in relation to the controversy "Out with everything that Bitelchús stands for and especially Jordi Évole!".
Omar Tall's state forbade dancing, the use of tobacco, alcohol, charms, pagan ceremonies, and the worship of idols.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion.
The Coalition is particularly active in challenging what it perceives as discrimination against nontheists by government chartered organizations like the Boy Scouts of America.
The British courts ruled in favour of British Airways and against Eweida under the Human Rights Act 1998, an Act of the British Parliament which implements the European Convention in British law.
ISKCON considered it did not breach planning control and was being deprived of its rights under the 1983 agreement by the notice.
Individuals have also the freedom to profess non-theistic and atheistic beliefs as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief.
History Religious uniformity was common in many modern theocratic and atheistic governments around the world until fairly modern times.
Abuses of religious freedom On April 29, 2007, government authorities reportedly deported Pastor Mazhar Izzat Bishay of the Aqaba Free Evangelical Church, an Egyptian national and long-time resident, to Egypt.
Kazakhstan Kazakhstan's constitution notes that the country as a secular state and provides for freedom of religion and belief.
An Edict of Toleration was decreed by King Kamehameha III of Hawaii on June 17, 1839, which allowed for the establishment of the Hawaii Catholic Church.
The Marrakesh Declaration is a statement made in January 2016 by "more than 250 Muslim religious leaders, heads of state, and scholars", which champions "defending the rights of religious minorities in predominantly Muslim countries".
The appropriation of religious symbols and buildings for political purposes in combination with restrictions on religious services and ceremonies had a negative impact on inter-religious dialogue and inter-ethnic relations in many communities.
At the Union of Dordrecht, on 4 July 1575, William of Orange was appointed stadholder of Holland and Holland and Zeeland decided to cooperate.
In August 2019, after the church had been destroyed, persecution of citizens continued with eight people in charge of the church and 13 churchgoers arrested.
The Edict of Serdica, also called Edict of Toleration by Galerius, was issued in 311 in Serdica (now Sofia, Bulgaria) by Roman Emperor Galerius.
Policy Accommodationism advocates providing aid to parochial schools, school vouchers that provide tax credit for private/parochial schools, as well as nonsectarian school prayer, as long as these policies apply equally to all religious institutions and individuals.
Like the Federation, both soon advocated for a liberal, open reading of the law, against the hardliners led by Clemenceau.
When Councilman Martinez, a supporter of the ordinances, stated that in pre-revolution Cuba "people were put in jail for practicing this religion", the audience applauded.
It was alleged that Scot claimed that Muslims were terrorists who wanted to take over Australia, and that those who didn't weren't true Muslims.
Weatherhead, published by the Board of Practice and Procedure of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1997), ISBN 0-86153-246-5.
Proselytizing by non-Muslims, including the distribution of non-Muslim religious materials such as Bibles, is illegal.
Each justice in the majority contrasted Section 116 with its equivalent in the US Constitution to find that Section 116 is narrower.
If individuals violate the law, the Government may ask their employers to terminate their employment.
Judgment The Court held that the length of the proceedings was excessive and failed to meet the "reasonable time" requirement.
The Fédération nationale de la libre pensée (English: National Federation for Free Thought) is a French not-for-profit federation of local associations concerned with freethought, anti-clericalism, freedom of conscience, and civil rights,.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
In 2020, the population of Benin was 52.2% Christian, 24.6% Muslim, 17.9% Animist and 5.3% following other faiths or none.
There is no official legal punishment under Syrian law for apostasy of Islam, or any other religion.
Scrutiny from Catholic officials occurred in places like Bohemia, where the officials attempted to preserve religious unity.
On 9 March, the Prosecutor-General (Riksåklagaren) appealed this decision to the Supreme Court, which on 29 November also acquitted.
The Rationalist Union hosts two radio shows, one on the radio of the French Anarchist Federation, and another on the public radio France Culture, and publishes two journals, Les Cahiers Rationalistes, and Raison Présente.
This follows laws which give the death penalty for adultery and homosexual activity, although these penalties have not been used since the 1980s.
The office refused to register the Association of Jehovah's Witnesses in Poland and ordered the seizure of its assets by the state.
On 17 December 2004, the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) ruled that Nalliah, Scot and the Christian group Catch the Fire Ministries had vilified Muslims at the seminar, and in a newsletter and website article authored by the group.
Court of first instance According to the lower court in 2005, the administrator was guilty of "incitement against a group of people" for statements he himself had written, and for crime against "the law on electronic bulletin boards", for guest-messages which he neglected to delete.
Although changes to the timetable were approved by most other workers in the plant, in consultation Mr Copsey was not happy, and he raised objection with four others.
Public schools may choose to offer religious instruction, but there is no national framework for such classes.
Muslims reside largely around the northern, eastern, and western borders, while Christians live in the center of the country.
Background Freedom of Worship is the second of a series of four oil paintings by Norman Rockwell entitled Four Freedoms.
However, these declarations were generally considered "mere admonitions to state legislatures", rather than enforceable provisions.
She held that the prosecution violated her right to freedom of expression under Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as her rights to freedom of religion under Article 9.
Epega (president of the Non-Governmental Organization Respeito Brasil Yourubá), Baptist priest Djalma Rosa Torres, Vaishnava Hindu priest Jagannatha Dhama Dasa and Milton R.
A student contacted the Center for Inquiry in Amherst, New York, to present the idea, which CFI then supported.
History IPPFoRB was established on 8 November 2014 with the signing of the Oslo Charter for Freedom of Religion or Belief at the Nobel Peace Center in Oslo.
The term "Peace of the Church" has sometimes been applied in Great Britain and Ireland to the ending of persecution that followed Catholic emancipation between 1778 and 1926.
Controversies Criticism The phrase "God be praised" creates arguments because, according to some, it would be contrary to the secular state, which does not privilege any religion, although there is no consensus on the part of the religious communities, especially the Christian ones.
According to RAD statistics and local Hindu organizations, there are an estimated 95,000 Hindus in the country.
Facts In 1973, the Church of Scientology of Sweden placed an advertisement for an E-meter in its periodical.
Ran Hirschl believes the conflict is "a contest for cultural hegemony between a secularist-libertarian elite and traditionally peripheral group," namely the ultra-Orthodox community.
Societal attitudes Some Christian, Baháʼí, and Shia Muslims report societal, familial, and cultural pressure on account of their faith.
Catholics rejected the apparent recognition of Protestantism as a permanent element in French society and still hoped to enforce religious uniformity.
These changes were reflected in June and July 1858, when the House of Lords and House of Commons respectively passed resolutions making loyal addresses to Queen Victoria to remove certain "occasional forms of prayer" from the 1662 Book of Common Prayer.
The No Religious Test Clause of Article VI of the Constitution expressly stated that "no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States".
The Open Doors report covering 2021 estimates the Christian population at 30,000 (approximately 3.5 percent).
On 4 October, a sentence was pronounced: fourteen were to be tortured and burned alive; five to be flogged and banished; ten, all women, were set free while the remainder were to undergo graded forms of penance.
Moreover, the same rule reads, if he becomes Muslim his change in faith, it is written down in their marriage contract.
However, the Commission does not consider that such an issue arises on the facts of the present case.
According to the World Jewish Congress, there were approximately 400 to 500 Jews in the country in 2022.
He celebrated the Eucharist clandestinely and ministered the other sacraments to small groups of Catholics.
Of course, during that time, the religious and non-religious nature of Shinto shrines was debated not as a legal issue but purely as a matter of religious studies.
The defense of a doctrine is not the magistrate's business (what does the sword have to do with doctrine?).
However, in April 2018, Parliament passed a new law that strengthens the existing death penalty punishment for certain blasphemy offenses.
In addition, religious materials for use at Christmas and Easter are readily available in local shops.
The reign of Charles I (1625–49) saw a small revival of Catholicism in England, especially among the upper classes.
It seems clear to me that this statement was directed not to Ms Ladele's belief with regard to civil partnerships, but to the manifestation of that belief, namely her refusal to conduct such partnership duties...
The neo-Nazi Socialist Reich Party had been banned due to the same government petition back in 1952, but the Communist Party's lengthy defense in part had caused a delay.
In February 1998, MILS, headed by Alain Vivien, released its annual report on their monitoring of cults in France.
Based on practices common in English towns, these were generally more liberal than the ones granted to New Netherland's Dutch communities and the charter granted to the applicants from Flushing was no exception.
The Special Provisions were a series of articles introduced in the Federal Constitution of the Swiss Confederation.
Independence (1956–present) Mohammed V (1956–1961) Mohammed V would become the first king of independent Morocco following negotiations with France, establishing the country as a constitutional monarchy.
As a signatory of the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne, Turkey recognizes the civil, political and cultural rights of non-Muslim minorities.
Both men were remanded to prison where they survived in isolation on rations of bread and water for over a month.
Baháʼí cemeteries, holy places, historical sites, administrative centers, and other assets were seized shortly after the 1979 revolution.
Permission to appeal to the Grand Chamber of the Court was refused, thus the judgment of the Chamber became final on 27 May 2013.
Throughout the country, there were 391 registered places of worship, including 217 Buddhist, 143 Christian, 5 Baháʼí, 24 Muslim, and 2 shamanistic.
In 1989, the Eastern Catholic church resurfaced in Ukraine, with hundreds of parishes across the republic renouncing their affiliation with the Russian Orthodox Church.
The Romans looked for common ground between their major gods and those of the Greeks, adapting Greek myths and iconography for Latin literature and Roman art.
Actions and reactions The movement suggests sympathizers act by leaving support messages on their website and filing legal complaints at the State and Federal attorney's Office.
In addition, 23 percent identified as “other” or did not declare a religion, 3.5 percent declared themselves “unaffiliated,” and 10.1 percent selected no religion.
According to the German weekly Die Zeit, Beijing police use around 4,500 officers to provide surveillance of Zhongguancun Square and of the homes of about 500 church members, to prevent the church from congregating.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
The Turkish Cypriot daily newspaper Afrika, in a front page article, criticised those who claim that there is freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus when the religious books were confiscated.
While missionary groups exist in Somalia, they face significant legal and societal barriers to their activities, and often have difficulty carrying out humanitarian aid missions.
Schweizer feels that it actually has just the opposite meaning and is instead showing that the promises in Jeremiah 31:34 and Isaiah 54:13 that all would someday be equal to the prophets had come to pass.
Federal Governments have twice proposed the amendment of Section 116, principally to apply its provisions to laws made by the states.
Meaux was eventually seen as the centre from which Calvin-inspired Protestantism could spread over all of France according to Jean Crespin, a historian of Protestant martyrs.
Later in the 15th and 16th centuries European Missionaries brought in Christianity in places such as Goa and Mangalore.
The 2001 About–Picard law [abu pika:r], officially the loi n° 2001-504 du 12 juin 2001 tendant à renforcer la prévention et la répression des mouvements sectaires portant atteinte aux droits de l'homme et aux libertés fondamentales, is French legislation passed by the National Assembly in 2000.
that every principle of the moral world is fixed and determinate, although the political world is abandoned to the debates and experiments of men." (Tocqueville 1945, 314- 15; emphasis added).
Chakraborty wrote to the Secretary, Department of Home Government of West Bengal, demanding the ban of the Quran.
Forced religious conversion There were reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The phrase "separation of church and state" does not appear in the United States Constitution, despite its wide use and origin from a founding father.
In the early 2000s, a separate government agency, the General Directorate for Foundations (GDF), regulated activities of non-Muslim religious groups and their affiliated churches, monasteries, synagogues and related religious property.
Some observers stated they believed prosecutors intentionally filed lesser charges in these cases to minimize the appearance of religious intolerance.
According to the school, as the girls had not yet reached puberty they did not qualify for an exemption from swimming lessons under Swiss law.
The Universal Code of Conduct on Holy Sites is an open standard for religious heritage and sacred natural sites safeguard developed by the Search for Common Ground and the Oslo Center for Peace and Human Rights.
On September 22, 2006, in reaction to the controversy surrounding Pope Benedict XVI's comments on Islam, the Catholic Church and the Muslim Community organized a "Day of Dialogue" in contrast to the "Day of Wrath" proclaimed on Al Jazeera for the same day.
He is believed to have been born at St-Nicolas, a commune in the Meurthe-et-Moselle department, 75 km south of Metz.
In the last decade, a number of religious groups considered foreign or "nontraditional" by the Azeri regime have established a presence, including "Wahhabi" and Salafist Muslims, Pentecostal and evangelical Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses, Hare Krishnas and Iran-backed Khomeinist groups.
At the beginning of 2023, the return of the Pochaiv Assumption Lavra to the state began due to the fact that its lease agreement with the Russian Orthodox Church had expired.
The only national holidays observed in Saudi Arabia are the two Eids, Eid Al-Fitr at the end of Ramadan and Eid Al-Adha at the conclusion of the Hajj and the Saudi national day.
Freedom of religion in Brazil is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.
While individual places of worship may register with local authorities, many choose not to do so and operate as the personal property of their leaders.
The national curriculum requires special classes on Christian studies from first grade, other religions are also mentioned.
Forced religious conversion There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The relevance of this reply is a subject of heated debate, with scholars such as Robert Boston emphasizing its importance, and others such as Mark David Hall arguing that the letter was a historical outlier.
Atheists In July 2017, an activist group that spread atheistic articles and books Iranian universities, published a video on YouTube titled "Why we must deny the existence of God", featuring famous atheist thinkers Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Christopher Hitchens and Daniel Dennett.
Pardiwala gave the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta more time to file an affidavit, as it clubbed together petitions filed by several people including former BJP MP Subramanian Swamy and advocate Ashwini Upadhyay, who had filed his plea on March 12, 2021.
In France, during a protest march against the imposition of restrictions on the wearing of headscarves in state-run schools, a banner labeled the ban as "secular fundamentalism".
State requirements for political office were not entirely abolished until 1961, when the Supreme Court of the United States rejected a provision of the Maryland State Constitution requiring all public officeholders to declare a belief in God in the case of Torcaso v.
Baha’i, Zoroastrian and Kaka’i groups are not allowed to register with the government, although they are recognized in Kurdish areas; Baha'ism is illegal.
In his description of the events in Milan in his Life of Constantine, Eusebius eliminated the role of Licinius, whom he portrayed as the evil foil to his hero Constantine.
There is a searchable archive of reports, including religious freedom surveys of countries and regions, and personal commentaries on religious freedom issues.
The Spanish were unable to cope with multiple uprisings since their limited military was overextended.
However, there are some who only support a revival of the religion's status merely as an element of national revival.
Bartholomew's Day Massacre, which prompted the Polish-Lithuanian nobility to ensure that no monarch would ever be able to carry out such an act in Poland.
Human Rights Watch says that they have been used to indoctrinate Uyghurs and other Muslims since 2017 as part of a "Strike Hard Campaign Against Violent Terrorism", a policy announced in 2014 after the May 2014 Ürümqi attack.
See also Hate speech Lists of pejorative terms for people List of ethnic slurs Notes References Richard A.
It put emphasis on the fact that in the opinion of the court the school had shown flexibility by offering to allow the girls to swim in burkinis and to change their clothes in a room with no boys present.
Chapter 2, Article 106 of the Constitution further notes that the President of the Republic must "practice his Islamic duties." Public schools provide instruction in Islam but not in other religions; however, Muslim citizens can attend private schools that do not teach Islam.
Copsey v WWB Devon Clays Ltd [2005] EWCA Civ 932; [2005] IRLR 811 is a UK employment discrimination law case, concerning the right to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
In an article of his authorship published in the Jornal do Brasil newspaper, law professor Ives Gandra Martins cited the words "under God's protection", from the Brazilian Constitution's introduction, as possible justification for the argument that the movement's aim is unconstitutional.
The notice was confirmed after ISKCON's appeal by the Secretary of State in 1990 and by the courts in 1991 and 1992.
Action against the use of public funds for Christmas decorations The Federation has brought legal actions under the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State against the use of public funds on religious symbols, notably public installations of nativity scenes.
Members of the group were urged to rebuke individuals identifying as Catholics and see the religion as a foreign religion that belonged to their enemies.
The 1905 law dissolved these establishments and transferred church buildings to religious associations.
English people would have found elements of Prussianism in his theory; anti-Semites would have regarded it as a Zionist plot; nationalists in all countries would have found it tainted with lily-livered pacifism, and proclaimed it a mere dodge for escaping military service.
Religious group registration The law does not require religious groups to register, but it treats unregistered religious organizations as informal groups that do not receive any of the legal benefits registered religious groups receive.
Special Adjudicator For the European Convention on Human Rights Archived 19 April 2006 at the Wayback Machine
The verdict declared the convert to be a ward of the state, stripped him of his civil rights, and annulled his marriage.
I am sure she will be sadly missed in her work.” Following the end of World War II in Yugoslavia and establishment of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a nominally secular state under influence of state atheism, religions became discouraged.
During the reporting period there were no indications the Turkmenistan government planned to rescind or modify previous policies regarding religious freedom.
nonprofit advocacy group that works to mitigate belief in pseudoscience and the paranormal and to fight the influence of religion in government.
Background The German federal government had petitioned for the Communist Party to be banned in 1952 on the basis that the party's revolutionary practice means "the impairment or the abolition of the fundamental liberal democratic order in the Federal Republic".
Lorek, Sklarzewicz, and Chodara were sentenced to 12 years, Cyrański to eight years, and Nabiałczyk to six years.
the Federal Republic of Germany was a 1957 European Commission of Human Rights decision which upheld the dissolution of the Communist Party of Germany by the Federal Constitutional Court a year earlier.
External links Judgment of the Fourth Section of ECHR, 2004 Full text of the European Convention on Human Rights Archived 2015-09-25 at the Wayback Machine Grand Chamber judgment, 2005
She claimed this violated her right to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
After a series of emissaries to Tall were rebuffed, and one prominent griot even converted to Islam, Yambi pre-emptively attacked the community but was defeated in September 1852.
In the referendum of May 20, 1973, the federal decree on the repeal of the Jesuit and monastery articles of the Federal Constitution was adopted, thereby removing these articles from the constitution.
Charlemagne was once again elsewhere, so the Saxons went to battle with the part of the Frankish army that had been left behind and the "Franks were killed almost to a man".
Persecution intensified in the context of the general 2011 crackdown on dissidents, following an announcement by church leaders that they would begin holding Sunday service meetings in public, if they were not allowed to acquire premises.
Therefore, if Servetus had wanted to kill Calvin, it would have been right for the magistrate to defend Calvin.
One could not, for example, immigrate to the US without swearing they are not an anarchist or polygamous, and once inside must not be communist.
Some mainstream Muslim leaders occasionally express, through sermons and press articles, their opinion that minority religious groups undermine national unity.
It draws its mandate from the South African Constitution by way of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities Act of 2002.
Felix Gutierrez and Amalia Gonzalez have the honor to invite you to the civil and socialist matrimonial act, to take place at 21 o' clock the 17th of this month at 305 Gomez Farias Street.
The freedom of religion report in 2007 by US Department of State also stated that "Turkish Cypriot authorities generally respected this right in practice" and the practice of religion was generally free.
If the priests of the state church were called upon to visit ill immigrants, they were not allowed to trouble their consciences with religious disputes and controversies.
In Ulaanbaatar, the registration of one Buddhist and three Christian religious organizations which own a temple and three churches, respectively, remained under consideration.
On 9 September 2025, Uyghur activists speaking at a side event during the United Nations Human Rights Council session in Geneva shared personal testimonies of family members detained in China's Xinjiang region, alleging long prison sentences handed down without due process.
Baháʼí group meetings and religious education, which often take place in private homes and offices, are curtailed severely.
Augustine: It may be asked, what difference there is between ‘they shall revile you’, and ‘shall speak all manner of evil of you;’ to revile, it may be said, being but to speak evil of.
In particular, Islamic personal law governs marriages and divorces of Muslims, while civil law applies to most property rights.
Population As of the 2012 census, 70.2% of Sri Lankans were Buddhists, 12.6% were Hindus, 9.7% were Muslims (mainly Sunni), 7.4% were Christians (mostly Catholics).
Judgment Elias J at the Employment Appeals Tribunal dismissed the case because McClintock's objection was essentially founded on a belief that children were being used as guinea pigs in a social experiment, rather than on his philosophical or religious beliefs.
The Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland – often known as the Declaratory Articles - were drawn up early in the 20th century to facilitate the union of the Church of Scotland and the United Free Church of Scotland.
Some commentators have been concerned about how closely this verse links good behaviour to eternal rewards, and that it implies that concern about these rewards is the main consideration in being moral.
It is thus generally not seen as a ninth Beatitude, but as a commentary on the eighth Beatitude directed to the disciples.
In February 2023, Justice For All, a Chicago-based human rights organization released a report titled 'The Nazification of India' which draws one on one parallels between Nazi Germany and India under the BJP-RSS regime.
Founding and leadership The origins of Khana Lueat Thai are somewhat contested, as no single charter or manifesto survives and the group operated semi-secretly.
The constitution states foreign nationals fearing persecution in their home countries on the grounds of religion have the right to request asylum.
Descendants of the signers, Bowne, Stuyvesant, and the arresting officer were invited and in attendance, and the original copy of the Remonstrance was brought down from the State Archives in Albany for several weeks' public display.
Those assisting priests in contravention of the May Laws were subject to fines, arrest and imprisonment, and 210 people were convicted under these laws in the first four months of 1875.
Maria viewed herself as a descendant of the Anusim, and (according to tradition) arrived in Michoacán with her mother and twelve children escaping a religious revolt (possibly the Cristero War), that was occurring during that period.
Generally, government agencies implement the ombudsman’s recommendations, although often with delays.
Laws proposed that those Christians who were fighting for the fundamentals of the faith should be called "fundamentalists".
Its mission is to "promote and protect the rights of cultural, religious and linguistic communities".
Under the Edict of Versailles, Roman Catholicism continued as the state religion of the Kingdom of France, but relief was offered to non-Catholic worshippers: Calvinist Huguenots, Lutherans and Jews alike.
United States (1970) was a case heard by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit challenging the inclusion of "In God We Trust" on U.S.
Passage The bill was criticised by Charles James Blomfield, the Bishop of London, for allegedly establishing the supremacy of the Pope in the United Kingdom.
Government ministers such as Mehmet Aydın, Minister of State in charge of religious affairs, called missionaries "separatist and destructive".
It upholds the view that special allowances do not need to be made by employers for people who want to follow particular religious practices, because people are free to choose their jobs.
They have also expressed concern that the government has not prosecuted people accused of assaulting their members.
Chakraborty thereafter met Chandmal Chopra, who also wrote to the Department of Home Government of West Bengal on March 16, 1985.
According to the CIA World Factbook, 76% of the residents are Muslim, 9% are Christian, other (primarily Hindu and Buddhist, less than 5% of the population consists of Parsi, Baha'i, Druze, Sikh, Ahmadi, Ismaili, Dawoodi Bohra Muslim, and Jewish) 15%.
Joseph II's enlightened despotism included the Patent of Toleration, enacted in 1781, and the Edict of Tolerance in 1782.
Personal characteristics includes religious beliefs or activities in anti-discrimination legislation for the majority of states, and as such these laws may be seen to support religious freedom by prohibiting unfair treatment using religion as a basis.
However, Catholic integralism as a more consciously articulated doctrine came about as a reaction against the political and cultural changes that followed the Enlightenment and the French Revolution.
Deicide Deicide as the prime accusation against the Jews appears, for the first time, in a highly rhetorical second-century poem by Melito of Sardis, of which only a few fragments have survived.
This edict is published at Nicomedia on the day before the Kalends of May, in our eighth consulship and the second of Maximinus.
Existing tensions between Jews and non-Jews remained high during the reporting period, and continuing violence heightened those tensions.
This was subsequent to their appointment by president Jacob Zuma in terms of section 11(4) read with 13(1) of the CRL Rights Commission Act 19 of 2002 with effect from 1 March 2014, for a period of five years.
Religious groups are required to register with the government in order to proselytize, build houses of worship, hold religious services, or officiate marriages.
During the Supreme Court hearing on the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, assured the court that no waqf property would be denotified and no appointments would be made to the Central Waqf Council or State Waqf Boards until 5 May.
Rosen This is a continuation of a public debate that dates back to the founding or the Animal Protection Societies in the 1890s.
Chandrachud, accepted a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991.
In May 2006, the MOI invited some 100 leaders from religious organizations to participate in a two-day tour of outstanding social services organizations operated by religious charities, to foster cooperation among organizations with similar social welfare goals.
Account of John Bowne John Bowne's account of the Flushing Remonstrance and its aftermath is found in his journal of events.
Legislative history The political and religious aspects of Anglican identity began to separate after Catholic emancipation culminated in the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829.
While previous law did not restrict the right to convert or proselytize, proselytism was prohibited based on a Royal Government decision.
Verbal attacks meant that the Christians were ostracized from their communities, and in that era community support was essential to survival.
He then said that the change, to make him work Sundays breached his fundamental human right to freedom of religion, as a Christian.
If the parents are not married when the child is born, the baby is registered with the same affiliation as the parent who has custody of the child.
Kamehameha III issued the edict under the threat of force by the French government, as the French were seeking to protect the work of the Congregation of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary.
On November 13, 2006, a number of Romanian non-governmental organisations sent a letter to the CNCD backing Moise's complaint.
The edict prescribed: Destroying churches and burning their Holy Scriptures Confiscation of church property Banning Christians from undertaking collective legal action Loss of privileges for Christians of high rank who refused to recant Arresting some state officials.
The legal protections found under fundamental justice could be defined as including other rights under the Charter, and in particular abortion laws breached freedom of conscience.
Despite efforts to destroy all photographs, some were successfully transmitted before the arrests, ensuring the protest gained international attention.
In Why Orwell Matters, he defends Orwell's writings against modern critics as relevant today and progressive for his time.
Middle Ages to the 19th century Judaism and Christianity Thomas Aquinas in his Summa Theologica questioned why, if under Jewish doctrine circumcision removed original sin, Jesus was circumcised – as Jesus had no original sin.
He mentions Darwin and other forefathers who touched on this topic when they attempted to explain race to all.
In 2002, the president of the Maryland Retailers' Association opined that supporters of the holiday should "get in the holiday spirit" and claimed that their activities could hurt retail workers financially.
Medieval and Renaissance The oldest surviving medieval manuscript was made in 895 by Arethas of Caesarea and copied by Johannes Calligraphus.
Vasyl's dance celebrating the success of the harvest was originally scripted as a Cossack-style hopak but Svashenko altered it after consulting local Ukrainian farmers.
Not knowing how to retrieve their little daughter Charlotte, who is staying out of the house this night, without a weapon, David and Jenny decide to hole up in the store.
The House of Yahweh: My Side of the Story is a 2012 book by Kay Hawkins, ex-wife of Yisrayl Hawkins, founder of the House of Yahweh.
Scholars have variously traced its origins in Fard's thought to the idea of the Yakubites propounded by the Moorish Science Temple or to the historical Battle of Alarcos, or alternatively say it may have been created with little basis in any other tradition.
This delay was in part due to Diamond taking his time on perfecting new material by both the King Diamond band and the reunited Mercyful Fate.
The sketch, called "The Third World", is about a Catholic Yorkshire worker played by Michael Palin, with his wife played by director Terry Jones.
Aftermath Jacobi was ridiculed for trying to reintroduce into philosophy the antiquated notion of unreasoning belief, was denounced as an enemy of reason, as a pietist, and as a Jesuit in disguise, and was especially attacked for his use of the ambiguous term Glaube (German: "belief, faith").
Rejecting Freud's theories of the feminine castration complex and penis envy, Horney argued for a primary femininity and penis envy as a defensive formation rather than arising from the fact, or "injury", of biological asymmetry as Freud held.
Few science fiction stories of the time attempted religious themes, and still fewer did this with Catholicism.
The Mores of the Russian Clergy (Russian: Нравы русского духовенства) is a book by Soviet historian of religion and advocate of atheism Yefim Grekulov, originally published in 1928.
At one point, he collaborated on a script with Kazakh director Rashid Nugmanov after an American producer had expressed an interest in a Soviet-American collaboration to star Soviet rock musician Viktor Tsoi.
People who deconstruct have described destabilizing feelings of anxiety, guilt, anger, confusion, and fear, as well as curiosity, awe, and liberation.
Nothing: Something to Believe in is a 2007 book by Nica Lalli that offers a personal account of atheism.
Demea "defends the Cosmological argument and philosophical theism..." He believes that the existence of God should be proven through a priori reasoning and that our beliefs about the nature of God should be based upon revelation and fideism.
In an interview with Echo Magazine, Curnow said: "I've been interested in music for as long as I could talk, really.
Mourning of Muharram and Karbala Twelvers have been criticised for the practice of tatbir (a form of self-flagellation) during Ashura, the observation of the martyrdom of Husayn, traditionally accompanied by acts of ritual self-harm, which is often described as barbaric.
Some passages that have been identified by scholars as mentioning Jesus, as the messiah of Christianity, in this context include: Babylonian Sanhedrin 107b – "not as Yehoshua b.
In one of them, Levi's father and mother suggest that a future president may well have been at Kids on Fire.
"Sinner" is a song by American rock band Drowning Pool, released in August 2002 as the third and final single from their debut album of the same name.
Marx held that the churches invented religion to justify the ruling classes' exploitation of labour of the working classes, by way of a socially stratified industrial society; as such, religion is a drug that gives an emotional escape from the real world.
Exscientologykids.com is a website launched in 2008 by Kendra Wiseman, Astra Woodcraft and Jenna Miscavige Hill.
Biography Having read jurisdiction at university, Aparicio-Bernal became a representative (procurador) to the Cortes Generales during the Francoist era, first as a trade union representative in 1955, 1958, and 1961, and for Alicante between 1967 and 1977.
According to Bradley's fictional satirical biography of Bowers, she proclaims herself "America's Best Christian".
Before the service, Levi mentioned how he admired Ted Haggard and was looking forward to meeting him.
Sandstedt and Emil Larsson continued to study the question for the Federation from its headquarters in Stocksund for several years thereafter.
China condemned North Korea's nuclear tests in 2013, 2016, and 2017 China also banned imports of North Korean coal in February 2017, while enforcing UN Security Council sanctions on North Korea put in 2017.
He is the châtelain of the Château Saint-Ferriol, a late medieval - early Renaissance castle, in the village and commune of Saint-Ferriol, in the Aude département in the South of France which is listed as a Monument Historique by the French Government.
In reviewing the distinctly Seventh-day Adventist doctrine, non-Adventist critics contend that it is not biblical teaching.
Principal photography began on April 2, 2012; the producers hoped to release the film before the 2012 United States presidential election.
Her belief that social liberation should extend to gay men and lesbians was virtually unheard of at the time, even among anarchists.
The work was an irreverent and incisive attack on the concept of personal immortality and on theology in the service of the state.
In the Brazilian Embassy Gardens, she is set upon by Olivier Bonneville (son of Gerard Bonneville), who has been tracking her movements with an alethiometer he has taken from the Magisterium.
This shift demonstrated his political acumen, adopting the now commonly accepted ideological line for the sake of national unity and political expediency.
However, a decision by the regional court in Frankfurt (Oder) forced the Pastafarians to take down their signs.
Further, this creator who fashioned us with the faculties of reason and speech cannot himself be without these faculties of reason and speech, because from the abundance of his reason he created us with the faculty of reason.
Kagin also ran prominently, albeit unsuccessfully, as "the candidate without a prayer" for the Kentucky Supreme Court (1998) and the Kentucky State Senate (2000).
The song was never released as a single, but was the first of the album's songs to be heard by the public.
Prieboy told the Los Angeles Times in 1991, "Wendy was the type that just bided her time, took drugs, and took what was offered to her.
She campaigned for women's equality, based on the examples in Finland, Norway and Denmark, where women had obtained the vote in 1906.
Fang vehemently denounces Greenpeace as an "anti-scientific organization", "a pseudo-environmental group".
When it's brought to our attention that a video has been removed mistakenly, we act quickly to reinstate it." The video also triggered many backlashes and criticisms from various Christian organizations.
He criticizes those, like Freeman, who he believes perpetuate these outdated myths despite conventional scholarship refuting them.
Biography Joseph Heinrichs was born on August 15, 1867, in Oestrich, near Erkelenz, Rhineland, Germany.
Pensées de Pascal (in French) – via Internet Archive.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) Pascal's Pensées; or, Thoughts on Religion.
Bill Buckingham told reporter Maldonado that the US was founded on Christianity and students should be taught that.(pp.
CEDADE had been a neo-Nazi group led by the prominent fascist figure and Nazi collaborator Léon Degrelle.
In debates Hitchens often posed what has become known as "Hitchens's Challenge": to name at least one moral action that a person without a faith (i.e.
Its appearance was noted by the American National Center for Science Education in a news article on 2 November 2006.
Al-Faruqi discusses Hebrew racialism, the political and social circumstances of Jesus' time, and the ethical norms prevalent among the Jewish people.
The decision to study abroad at that time when a master degree study was not available in Ibadan, was through Joyce M.
In October 2011, a video of Kirk engaging in a sex act with a banana was leaked on the internet imageboard 4chan.
According to Castoriadis, the central claim of the Stalinist regime at the time was that the mode of production in Russia was socialist, but the mode of distribution was not yet a socialist one since the socialist edification in the country had not yet been completed.
"It Means Nothing" is a song by Welsh rock band Stereophonics from their sixth studio album, Pull the Pin (2007).
Many of his theories about the solar system were verified as late as the 1980s through external measurements of cometary and planetary magnetospheres.
A limited edition vinyl single of "Strawberry Gashes" and the full album was released in July 2025 for the 25th anniversary of the album's release.
The story was originally published as a novella-length "short novel" in the September 1953 issue of the If magazine.
The difference of opinion became a wider public controversy when, in 1785, Jacobi published his correspondence with Mendelssohn.
Albania The People's Republic of Albania had an objective for the eventual elimination of all religion in Albania with the goal of creating an atheist nation, which it declared it had achieved in 1967.
He critiques the Christian view of sin as a universal and necessary phenomenon, suggesting it was a later development that Jesus did not originally teach.
William Irwin later asked to meet with Farlow in order to get permission to get interior views of the Mother Church, and again assured him that the articles would be fair and not a "roast".
The story was published as a book by Random House in 1957, and at approximately the same time in an issue of Redbook.
Instead, Wainwright declares he is "Rufus the Baptist", referring to John the Baptist, and sings: "I won't be the one/Baptised in cum".
History The party was formed in January 1995 by members of the far-right groups CEDADE and the Juntas Españolas.
Consequently, we are in no position to endorse the minor premise (2) of the argument from evil because we cannot be more than agnostic about the accuracy of the premise.
Abolitionist rabbis, including Einhorn and Michael Heilprin, concerned that Raphall's position would be seen as the official policy of American Judaism, vigorously rebutted his arguments, and argued that slavery—as practiced in the South—was immoral and not endorsed by Judaism.
Ippolit Sokolov, a Soviet film critic, described Dovzhenko as a "great director" but also "a petty-bourgeois artist" in his review of Earth.
Previously, the EO made similar programmes about refugees (Rot op naar je eigen land, "Piss Off To Your Own Country", 2015) and environmental issues (Rot op met je milieu, "Get Lost With Your Environment", 2016).
One of the founding members, Oksana Shachko, was found dead in Paris on 24 July 2018; her death is believed to have been a suicide.
Omar arrives and deceptively orders Seid arrested for Zopir's murder, despite knowing that it was Mahomet who had ordered the assassination.
Works by Algernon Charles Swinburne at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) "Swinburne as Critic" in T.
Career After his studies in Strassburg (theatre) and Brussels (Insas) he started his career as an author of about 50 comics: ((Daniel) Jaunes, Le Bal du Rat Mort (1986), Retour au pays noir, Alain Moreau, etc...).
Heath Schechinger, co-chair of the American Psychological Association Division 44 Committee on Consensual Non-Monogamy and other authors and practitioners.
Reception Sales Atlas Shrugged debuted at number 13 on The New York Times Best Seller list three days after its publication.
Mints, Władysław Witwicki, William Sargant, Raj Persaud, and Anthony Storr, have said Jesus suffered from religious delusions and paranoia.
Slinking down the chimney of the first house on the square, the Grinch steals all of the presents, the food for the feast, and even the Christmas tree.
[...] In the rest of this book I want to show you that the real world, as understood scientifically, has magic of its own—the kind I call poetic magic: an inspiring beauty which is all the more magical because it is real and because we can understand how it works.
While this case was in progress, after the appellate finding, Republican legislators began an effort to amend the Florida constitution to remove the language of the Blaine amendment, succeeding in 2011 to place the measure on the 2012 ballot as amendment 8.
Mendelson and Guaraldi disagreed, desiring the "kids to sound like kids"; they used a slightly off-key version of "Hark!
Similarly the Rodkinson translation of the Babylonian Talmud account interpolates "with the name of Jesus".
It presents a post-Hegelian critique of Christianity and traditional morality on one hand; and on the other, humanism, utilitarianism, liberalism, and much of the then-burgeoning socialist movement, advocating instead an amoral (although importantly not inherently immoral or antisocial) egoism.
This sentiment is also reflected in the work of other scholars who classify Kumaré as "fabulatory", indicating that although much of Gandhi's religion was fabricated, the effects of it are real and can be beneficial .
For example, Sam was an Imam after Noah, Ishmael was an Imam after Abraham, Aaron or Joshua after Moses, and Ali and his descendants after Muhammad.
Mainländer Before Nietzsche, the concept was popularized in philosophy by the German philosopher Philipp Mainländer.
Death and legacy On 10 March 2005, at the age of 68, Allen died peacefully in his sleep as a result of sudden arrhythmic death syndrome at his home in Kensington, London.
[...] We would certainly consider a change in the future grants - if there was a change that aligned with what our non-discrimination policies are." A Pennsylvania chapter of the United Way withheld funding over the decision to exclude openly gay leaders.
Being close to Tunisian militant feminist groups, she began making documentaries in 1993 with Femmes Leader du Maghreb and Tanitez-moi.
It is the cult of that supreme being and the belief that his or her wishes have been made known or can be determined." He mentions great critics such as Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Paine, who perhaps paradoxically regarded religion as an insult to God.
Television producer Lee Mendelson acknowledged the strip's cultural impression and had an idea for a documentary on its success, phoning Schulz to propose the idea.
1977, ISBN 90-277-0760-X Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
On November 14, 2006, the CFI opened its Office of Public Policy in Washington, DC, and issued a declaration "In Defense of Science and Secularism", which calls for public policy to be based on science rather than faith.
Song structure The song's structure was described in detail by AllMusic: Simply put, it is weird and creepy.
During the 2000s, he argued for the invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan, endorsed the re-election campaign of US President George W.
"Father Leo's slayer guilty", New York Times, March 13, 1908 "ALIA SLASHES GUARD, ATTEMPTS ESCAPE", New York Times, March 15, 1908.
He also received the Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic, the second highest honour, by the military head of state Ibrahim Babangida.
Contents Contents Preface Abbreviations for Books of the New Testament Introduction Jewish and Pagan Testimony to Jesus Early Christian Epistles The Origin and Nature of the Gospels Christologies The Twelve Galilee and John the Baptist Was Jesus a Political Rebel?
Some critics argue that people cannot form an objective image of what marriage is if they are from early childhood indoctrinated into believing marriage is desirable and necessary.
While the play has been revived periodically over the past century, the obstacles it presents—a large cast and an actor capable of performing in such a challenging role chief among them—have prevented more widespread performance.
It was later removed from the premises, along with all the other long-term statues, as a result of the controversy over the statue.
In November 2015, in an appearance on the talk radio show The Humanist Hour, the philosopher Peter Boghossian defined the term as a pejorative used to describe those on the left that have made the "strangest bedfellows" with Islamists.
Said, Edward, 2000: My Encounter with Sartre, London Review of Books Sartre, Jean-Paul and Levy, Benny, Hope Now: The 1980 Interviews, translated by Adrian van den Hoven, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1996.
In 2003, Colombian filmmaker Luis Ospina made a feature-length documentary about him: "La desazón suprema: retrato incesante de Fernando Vallejo ("The Supreme Uneasiness: Incessant Portrait of Fernando Vallejo").
He founded or took part in the founding of several intellectual and academic journals such as Philosophies, La Revue Marxiste, Arguments, and Espaces et Sociétés.
When interviewed at Howard University in 1978, she explained, "when Israel declared war on the Arab countries [during the Six-Day War], there was a great pro-Zionist movement in favor of Israel among western (French) intellectuals.
While Catholic tradition agrees with Protestantism that faith, not works, is necessary for "initial" justification, some contemporary Protestant Scholars such as N.
This, for Jacobi, was the result of Enlightenment rationalism and it would finally end in absolute atheism.
Studios Recorded at Grouse Lodge (County Westmeath, Ireland), Real World Studios (Wiltshire, England), and Eden Studios (London, England) Mixed at South Lane Studios (England) Mastered at Sterling Sound Personnel Charts == References ==
Burke advocated allowing English dissenters to practice Christianity the way they saw fit, but he briskly opposed efforts to subvert church authorities.
Sagan writes that if the patient is asked what her scars look like, she is unable to show them because, unfortunately, they are located in the private areas of her body.
Creativity Alliance Australian man Cailen Cambeul, formerly known as Colin Campbell, was the co-founder of the Creativity Alliance in 2003.
Additionally, intaglio etchings and engravings were printed with great pressure, but in relief etching, because the printed material was a raised surface rather than incised lines, considerably less pressure was required.
Raised on her grandmother's stories about her affair with former Colonial Viceroy Santiago de Liniers, Camila secretly reads French romance novels and books by political refugees like Esteban Echeverría.
McGrath then argues that Dawkins frequently violates the very tenets of evidence-based reasoning that Dawkins himself claims to uphold and use to dismiss all religious belief.
At Pan's request, Tilda Vasara carries him far to the East, towards the red building where he hopes to reunite with Lyra.
Sibyl Wilbur's Human Life articles Around the same time the McClure's articles were being written, another set of articles were being written by Sibyl Wilbur.
The enthusiasm was general; we all became at once Feuerbachians." However, this account oversimplifies the book's reception.
This article deals with general bans on recreational and artistic dancing, as opposed to bans on erotic forms of dancing such as lap dancing and topless dancing, which have been more common.
The government nationalized most property of religious institutions and used it for non-religious purposes, such as cultural centers for young people.
Wells also felt that "The Fight Song" resembles the music of The Sweet, particularly "Little Willy" (1972).
According to the argument, such civil unions ought to replace the current legal institute of marriage.
History Much of the contemporary tradition of free union under natural law or common law comes from anarchist rejection of marriage, seeking non-interference of either church or state in human relations.
If they were hoping Judge Jones would see and be influenced by this silliness, it was just another sign of the disrespect for his intelligence and integrity that began before the trial and continues today.
The opposition lawyer, Kamini Maheshwari says Kanti is doing all this to cover up his son's vulgar act.
In 1967, Hoxha's regime conducted a campaign to extinguish religious life in Albania and by year's end over two thousand religious buildings were closed or converted to other uses and religious leaders were imprisoned and executed.
Adam's nails are described as long and dirty since no one has yet invented a tool to trim or clean them.
The authors analyze the absence of a scientific intelligent design hypothesis, identify religious foundations, and the political ambitions of intelligent design proponents.
However, Manson was not quite sure that it represented the criticism that the subject matter deserved.
When the members had a meeting at vocalist Branco Mello's apartment to discuss the album's repertoire, vocalist, bassist and saxophonist Paulo Miklos also opposed the song's inclusion,.
Following the trials and an attack on George III, conservatives were successful in passing the Seditious Meetings Act and the Treasonable Practices Act (also known as the "Two Acts" or the "gagging acts").
In 2005, Hopper founded Diogenes Press, publishing a new, expanded edition of The Heathen's Guide to World Religions.
And we didn't sleep for, like, two days because we shot the thing from six at night until eight in the morning.
During the Turkish War of Independence he played a role in the establishment of the Friends of England Association and briefly was active in the Society for the Rise of Kurdistan from 1921 to 1922.
For example, a boyar named Ivan Buturlin was forever known as "The Polish King" because he played the enemy in a mock battle at Preobrazhenskoye, while Fyodor Romodanovsky was first known as "King of Pressburg" and then as "Prince-Caesar".
And those who have said the one or the other, knew nothing about it, and guessed without reason and by chance.
References External links Link at EME de la CU Web Site Emecu178.com/Biblioteca (All works of Trincado) Excellent factual info about Joaquin Tricado
(The religious leaders engaged in ceremonial cleansing like washing up to the elbow and baptizing the cups and plates before eating food in them—Mark 7:1–23, Matthew 15:1–20.) Jesus is also criticized for eating with the publicans (Mark 2:15).
Footage includes a dominatrix and pit bulls, a woman who lies in a tanning bed until her skin becomes leathery, and an obese man sitting in a recliner in front of a TV set.
During the 1986 Voyager 2 fly-by of Uranus, he worked with the Radio Science Experiment, using the spacecraft carrier signal to deduce information about Uranus' atmosphere and rings.
But Harris is critical of the stance of moral relativism, and also of what he calls "the false choice of pacifism".
Eddy and the History of Christian Science, Grand Rapids: Baker Book House, 1971, with an introduction by Stewart Hudson.
Peabody, it was announced the society would move to legally force the board of education to eliminate the reading of the Bible in public schools.
The foundation's website states the Hitchens Prize "seeks to advance what he was dedicated to throughout his life: vigorous, honest, and open public debate and discussion, with no tolerance of orthodoxy, no reverence for authority, and a belief in reasoned dialogue as the best path to the truth".
Through these and other writings, European writers established a hitherto unheard of connection between Ham, Africa and slavery, which laid the ideological groundwork for justifying the transatlantic slave trade.
Church doctrine Trinitarian views Some Christian critics of Adventism contend that the current Adventist view of the Trinity is unorthodox or constitutes tritheism.
It came under several aliases as the magazine would be interrupted by shuttering: Cehd, İşhâd, İştihâd, Âlem, Eski İçtihad.
The book examines the goals and strategies of the intelligent design movement and its attempts to undermine established science.
According to him, regressive contrasts progressive, the former being a group that "[looks] for the worst in people ...
Costello was convicted of inciting racial hatred in November 2023, and he was sentenced to serve a 5 year prison term.
Writing for website Travellers Times, Damian Le Bas comments: "In reality, both stories are equally absurd, since Jesus was crucified long before the ancestors of today's Romanies ever left India.
302–311, ISBN 978-1-57392-804-5 Stenger, Victor (2000), Intelligent Design: The New Stealth Creationism (PDF), archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-08-31, retrieved 2015-11-12 Stenger, Victor (2001), "Humanity in Time and Space", Free Inquiry, vol.
Melendez suggested he provide gibberish for Snoopy's mutterings, and simply speed up the tape to prevent viewers from knowing.
"Come On" was also featured on October 5, 2010 episode of Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) on Spike TV as a promotion of the long storied rivalry between Wrestling Legend, Ric Flair and Hardcore Wrestling Legend, Mick Foley.
Marxism and Maoism are other political ideologies which have been described as a pseudoreligious; as have been Trumpism and QAnon.
"The Closet" turns out to be a bar in Los Angeles, where he can have "a lot of fun" achieving sexual gratification using machines.
"A Token of My Extreme", by Frank Zappa, is a song on the 1979 concept album Joe's Garage Acts II & III.
She was imprisoned for three years and extensively tortured prior to the execution, yet she refused to plead her innocence in a bid to protect her daughter (reportedly the actual culprit).
In time, the Jolly Company held more and more parties within Moscow itself, often within the home of Franz Lefort.
This is a bibliography of literature treating the topic of criticism of Judaism as a religion, sorted by alphabetical order of titles.
Although most NT scholars will not (or do not) consider his work either convincing or particularly well argued." (p.
Career London As a young socialist in 1887, Feigenbaum considered starting a socialist Yiddish newspaper.
La Fin de la Chrétienté (The End of the Christian World) is a 2021 book by philosopher Chantal Delsol that portends a return to paganism after centuries of Christendom.
Judas, whose face and speech are changed to resemble those of Jesus, returns to the house while the other disciples are sleeping.
Max, the Grinch's dog, and the Grinch himself also appear in the children's puppet show The Wubbulous World of Dr.
Voltaire noted a trend against using poetic forms to make philosophical arguments, and wrote "Le Mondain" in deliberate opposition to this trend.
Sprawl trilogy, The Difference Engine, and Bridge trilogy Although much of Gibson's reputation has remained rooted in Neuromancer, his work continued to evolve conceptually and stylistically.
Its premise was a regulatory principle described as "the principle of psychic inertia", "the Nirvana principle", and "the conservatism of instinct".
In 2017, the senior and foremost Professor within Geʽez studies today, Getatchew Haile (1931–2021), published a book with a chapter on his new views upon the Hatatas, as he had for a long time rejected the authenticity of the Hatatas.
It opened on 27 September 1966 with Gerry Duggan as McLeavy, Sheila Ballantine as Fay, Kenneth Cranham as Hal, Simon Ward as Dennis, and Michael Bates as Inspector Truscott.
Mary's University, London, concluded that Christianity "as a norm" was gone for at least the foreseeable future.
After trying and failing to sell Jack Off Jill "for ludicrous amounts of money" to major record labels, Risk Records went bankrupt in January 2000, which resulted in all of the label's staff, including the band's A&R rep, being laid off.
The film was eventually passed by the Censor Board with an (A) (Adults Only) certificate with no cuts but with 25 modifications.
Marlowe was apparently aware from his sources of Timur's three sons Umar Shaikh Mirza I, Miran Shah, and Shah Rukh, but not their names; in the play they become Calyphas, Amyras, and Celebinus.
667 Pedro Juricich (primary and secondary EGB3 initial level), which works with many children from the area who attend the association.
Loot was revived from 11 December 2008 to 31 January 2009 at the Tricycle Theatre, London starring Matt Di Angelo and David Haig as Hal and Truscott.
However, there are less extreme forms of FGM, in which only the foreskin of the clitoris is removed." This type of mutilation that removes the prepuce, also known as the clitoral hood, is called Type Ia.
After the original 1795 printing, the text of All Religions was not published again until 1893, in The Works of William Blake, Poetic, Symbolic and Critical, edited by W.B.
Background In the summer of 2000, the band began sessions with longtime producer Steve Lillywhite for a new album.
The cumulative process is directed by non-random survival." Dawkins illustrates the difference between the potential for the development of complexity as a result of pure randomness, as opposed to that of randomness coupled with cumulative selection.
Historical context Intellectual context: 18th-century British deism Paine's book followed in the tradition of early 18th-century British deism.
History London The earliest and longest-running event is the award-winning London meeting, established by Australian philosophy professor Scott Campbell in 1999.
Philosophical bases Ludwig Feuerbach In training as a philosopher in the early 19th century, Karl Marx participated in debates about the philosophy of religion, specifically about the interpretations presented in Hegelianism, i.e.
A YouTube spokeswoman stated: "With the massive volume of videos on our site, sometimes we make the wrong call.
Letters from the Earth is a posthumously published work of American author Mark Twain (1835–1910) edited by Bernard DeVoto.
By 1924 he was working with Paul Nizan, Norbert Guterman, Georges Friedmann, Georges Politzer, and Pierre Morhange in the Philosophies group seeking a "philosophical revolution".
Mary Beard Mary Beard, a Professor of Classics at the University of Cambridge, notes: "for most of Freeman's book, this argument takes a back seat".
Walker and John Beverly Robinson, and the proponents of natural rights anarchism such as that of Lysander Spooner.
During these two days of freedom, Yana Zhdanova, Sasha Shevchenko, and Oksana Shachko decided to leave Ukraine and go to France asking for asylum as political refugees.
Although they could incorporate more content with the Wrath of the Lamb expansion, McMillen had to abandon a second expansion due to the limitations.
Lovecraft: "A Letter on Religion" Carl Van Doren: "Why I Am an Unbeliever" from Twelve Modern Apostles and Their Creeds H.
By 1974, Lon Nol's government had lost a great deal of support, both domestically and internationally.
Montagu presented a unique theory for his time: "in biology race is defined as a subdivision of species which inherits physical characteristics distinguishing it from other populations of the species.
The ballad was released as a single on 24 September 2007 and reached number 12 on the UK Singles Chart.
Further, the historical Hauser was 17 when he was discovered in Nuremberg and the film implies this.
The relationship started improving in March 2018, when Kim visited Beijing, meeting with CCP General Secretary Xi Jinping, marking his first foreign trip since assuming power.
Samples "Terrible Lie" was sampled for a battle theme in the 1999 video game Galerians, released on the PlayStation.
One popular spirit guide of this type, encountered by many Anglo-American Spiritualists, was named White Hawk.
Thus, he questions the idea that the fertilized egg itself could be regarded as the beginning of the development of the human individual.
The company was accused by the committee, which represents the interests of all UK taxpayers, of being "evil" for not paying its "fair amount of tax".
"The Collected Writings of Jack Parsons: The Book of Babalon, The Book of Antichrist, and other writings".
Catholicism holds that the understanding of scripture continues to deepen and mature over time through the action of the Holy Spirit in the history of the church and in the understanding of that faith by Christians, all the while staying identical in essence and substance.
Such people prosper in this world to receive their reward for any good deed, but cannot be cleansed by and hence cannot leave gehinnom, because they do not or cannot repent.
This shows that the society, its people, and the ruling king once lived in absolute harmony with nature, placing the power of God in all their works, deeds, and activities during early ages.
The Catholic Church has backed the institutionalizing of optional education of its catechism in public schools in the 1950s.
This took place during a heart weighing ceremony, in which Anubis would feed the heaviest hearts to the demon Ammit.
History In 1926, Okada claimed to have received a divine revelation that empowered him to be a channel of God's Healing Light (johrei) to purify the spiritual realm to remove the spiritual causes of illness, poverty, and strife from the world and inaugurate a new Messianic Age.
He placed on it firm mountains (towering) above it, and blessed it, and decreed for it its (various) foods in four days, equal to the ones who ask.
The veneration of corporal relics may have originated with the śramaṇa movement or the appearance of Buddhism, and burial practices became more common after the Muslim invasions.
In practice, every means is used to excuse suicide—usually by determining either that the suicide itself proves that the person was not in their right mind, or that the person must have repented after performing the deadly act but shortly before death occurred.
If anyone has a problem (dava) with someone else and if he/she couldn't solve this problem with him/her, then he/she goes to the top of the mountain of Duzgın and he/she may wish for his help.
Most famously, the philosopher Socrates was executed for impiety (as well as corrupting Athenian youth) in 399 BC.
However, the historical Jesus in their view, although escaped crucifixion, nevertheless died and will not be coming back.
The Karlsschrein in the same church contains the remains of Charlemagne, who was locally venerated as a saint.
This shows what tends to stay consistent and what changes between different depictions of Lan, including features such as Lan's emblem, age, and gender.
Such writings reflect a broader medieval tradition of apophatic theology, or the via negativa, where the divine is approached not through assertions but through negation, paradox, and silence.
The medium Francisco Cândido Xavier, in the work Emmanuel, sums it up: "Jesus was the manifestation of God's love, the personification of His infinite goodness".
Methods include re-sampling, frequency isolation, and noise reduction or enhancement, which can cause recordings to take on qualities significantly different from those that were present in the original recording.
In 2009 a scandal erupted when a farm near the Polish town of Częstochowa was discovered rearing dogs to be rendered down into smalec‍—‍‌lard.
The priest waves the haraigushi horizontally over a person or object being purified in a movement known as sa-yu-sa ("left-right-left").
These little images are of stone, partly hermaphrodites, having, generally, two heads or two faces, with a beard, but, in other respects, female figures, most of them accompanied by serpents, the sun and moon, and other strange emblems, and bearing many inscriptions, mostly in Arabic ...
If they reach the destination, the theist will have been proven right; but if there is no destination on an endless road, this can never be verified.
In March 1966, Lennon remarked to a journalist from the Evening Standard that the Beatles had become "more popular than Jesus".
Both Khamba and Kongyamba became champions of their respective panas in wrestling and running events.
The social rejection occurs when a person or group deliberately avoids association with, and habitually keeps away from an individual or group.
Kristin Neff and Christopher Germer identified three levels of activities that thwart self-compassion: self-criticism, self-isolation, and self-absorption; they equate this to fight, flight, and freeze responses.
These differences are seen to be needed since human society has slowly and gradually evolved through higher stages of unification from the family to tribes and then nations.
This verse is interpreted by Rabbi Even-Israel Steinsaltz to enjoin him to willingly surrender life and fortune whenever the cause of God demands it, while it at the same time urges him to make God beloved by all his creatures through deeds of kindness, as Abraham did (Sifre, Deut.
In England, Robert Hindmarsh, a printer with a Methodist background, formed a "Theosophical Society" in 1783, for translating, printing and distributing the writings of Swedenborg.
In traditional art and literature In poetry by Yuan Yishan Yuan Yishan (Wade–Giles: Yüan I-shan) (1190–1257 CE) was a poet whose hao was Hao Wên.
Correlations are made between the two traditions, which might imply recognition of similarities or recognition of differences.
Tract Although Milton knew that the word "heresy" was used as a pejorative, Milton believed that the term was properly defined as "only the choice or following of any opinion good or bad in religion or any other learning".
The expression act of God is typically used to describe an event outside human control, for which no person can be held responsible.
Shakespeare scholars such as Eric Sams and Robert Miola disagree with the traditional position that Shakespeare was a member of the established Anglican Church.
This can be a formal decision by a group, or a less formal group action which will spread to all members of the group as a form of solidarity.
The upper part shows an eagle resting on a pile of weapons, originally a tropaion on a rectangular funerary pedestal on an urn – that pedestal and urn are now lost.
Right Ginza Book 1 Book 1 of the Right Ginza explains that the Great Fast is not about food and drink but about moral and spiritual discipline.
Later early and medieval Christian cosmology incorporated the concept in descriptions of the Christian notion of heaven.
The music critic Annie Zaleski described the production elements as "dreamy synthesizer shimmers, sun-kissed production and laid-back beats".
Manu Neetham — Justice of Common Man The Manu Neetham describes how a person should act in a society.
The Greeks, Ovid, and the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn attributed silence to him, presumably because the sucking of the finger is suggestive of the common "shhh"-gesture.
Debates Despite the general understanding of standing scholarly disagreements (Arabic: اختلاف, romanized: ikhtilaf), the notion of lawful innovation is a polarizing issue in the Islamic world.
The Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn (OSOGD) was an esoteric community of magical practitioners, many of whom came from pagan backgrounds.
See also Aleister Crowley bibliography Great Work References Citations Works cited Crowley, Aleister.
Theodidaktos (Greek, from theos - 'god', and didaktos - taught) were "the immediate disciples of Ammonius Saccas, who was called Theodidaktos, “God-Taught” – such as Plotinus and his follower Porphyry." == References ==
"Numinous and Religious Experience in the Psychology of Carl Jung." Diálogos Junguianos [Jungian Dialogues] 3(1): 110–33.
It was decided that those establishments where the disputants owned half of the revenues or more should remain in the control of their former owners, but that the remainder should pass to the bishop.
While critics often interpret autotheism as self-idolatry or hubris, proponents view it as a form of spiritual enlightenment or personal transcendence.
In this way each Manifestation of God manifested the Word of God and taught the same religion, with modifications for the particular audience's needs and culture.
The thymos, responsible for feelings such as rage, bravery, and hope, was located in the chest cavity.
Ad Consulta Vestra (as entitled in Latin) declared judicial torture to be a practice that was fundamentally contrary to divine law.
These spiritual principles give rise to new forms of architectural expression that serve as spaces in which people of all beliefs, cultures, and backgrounds gather together, meditate, reflect, and pray, and around which will be built social, humanitarian, educational, and scientific institutions.
Religious cosmologies have often developed into the formal logics of metaphysical systems, such as Platonism, Neoplatonism, Gnosticism, Taoism, Kabbalah, Wuxing or the great chain of being.
Gooch notes that while its "somewhat dated, elegant" prose could be read as fiction, due to its claim of divine revelation "the book invites reactions far more scathing than [it] ...
Rabbis have frequently inferred that traditions that explicitly prohibit birds of prey and natural scavengers create a distinction with other avian species; thus, eating chickens, ducks, geese, and turkeys is allowed.
"Shrine Shinto" refers to practices centred around shrines, and "Domestic Shinto" to the veneration of kami in the home.
According to the Masoretic Text, this period consists of 1,656 years, and Western Christian Bibles deriving from the Latin Vulgate also follow this dating.
Other sculptures and literature from ancient Mesopotamia show that wrestling was a popular activity.
The four last things Death Martin of Cochem explains that "there are three principal reasons why all sensible people fear death so much: First, because the love of life, the dread of death is inherent in human nature.
There is also an online database pertaining to the LIMC maintained at weblimc.org, called the Digital LIMC.
Theology of religion thus reflects from Christian theological claims, based on general descriptions of other religious traditions.
Theonymy helps develop an understanding of the function and societal views of particular gods and may help understand the origins of a society's language.
Professorship in Göttingen and Bonn After World War II, Iwand was professor of systematic theology at the University of Göttingen, where he worked closely with Ernst Wolf.
It also describes the correct moral character of the people, and their way of life in harmony with nature (particularly women) in the early ages.
Donald Abraham said that Mutota was the same as Nyatsimba Mutota (the founder of the Mutapa Empire), although David Beach has criticised his sources and questioned whether Nyatsimba Mutota was a historical or symbolic figure.
Savitri recounts her encounter with Yama and the boons granted—her father-in-law’s sight and kingdom, a hundred sons for her father, and the same for herself and Satyavan.
Jones described the platform as "a bright light darting in the sky." According to Plimpton the "bright light darting in the sky", seen by Ali and Jones, was probably either Venus or Jupiter.
Espiritismo in Cuba would eventually mix with other local African elements and produce Espiritismo Cruzao which would gain in popularity in the early 1900s.
Museum no.: CBS 11065 Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
In his book, Frum wrote that the more he compared the Axis powers of World War II to modern "terror states", the more similarities he saw between them.
Background A Treatise of Civil Power in Ecclesiastical Causes was published in February 1659 after Richard Cromwell established a new Parliament.
In teaching the method, Ichazo referred to an old legend about Mongolian warriors, who were said to have a way of removing pain and tension from their bodies that enabled them to return to battle without fear.
The essential purpose of a philosophy of the spirit can only be to reintroduce the concept into the cognition of the spirit and thereby also to reopen the meaning of these Aristotelian books.
The Prince was not then aware of the sect, but it was brought to his attention several years later by John Champion, the British Resident Commissioner in the New Hebrides.
Themes and genre Like the fourteenth-century Beatrijs, the story involves a beautiful young woman who is seduced, but unlike that poem Mariken has a lively, "Burgundian" style in often lower-class language, as opposed to the courtly elegance of the Beatrijs.
"Since Google's contract tells employees that they can be fired for failing to abide by the motto, 'don't be evil,' it must have meaning." - plaintiffs' lawyer, Laurie Burgess The trio had circulated a petition calling on Google to publicly commit to not working with the CBP.
Israel Regardie's The Golden Dawn provides an in-depth look at the ritual's structure and its significance within the order's framework.
The term is found among those Eastern Orthodox Churches that use Slavic languages (the Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Serbian and Macedonian Orthodox Churches), along with the Romanian Orthodox Church.
A false moustache was discovered in the séance room which he used to fabricate the spirit materializations.
He also believes the Buddha did not aim to create a religion that focuses on devotion to his person, though he recognizes that such devotion already started when the Buddha was still alive.
The creators of South Park reacted by instead satirizing Comedy Central's double standard for broadcast acceptability by including a segment of "Cartoon Wars Part II" in which American president George W.
Over the course of the Middle Ages, other religious structures acquired relics and became destinations for pilgrimage.
Cantieri decorativi a Palermo dal tardo barocco alle soglie del neoclassicismo, in Il Settecento e il suo doppio.
It was written in Jewish Babylonian Aramaic and follows the format of the Halachot Gedolot which antedates it by about 20 years.
Therefore, Pan is both the giver and the taker of life, and his Night is that time of symbolic death where the adept experiences unification with Nuit, the Thelemic personification of the infinite and boundless expanse of the universe, through the ecstatic destruction of the ego-self.
All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes; We cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter." This spirit matter always existed and is co-eternal with God.
which means in effect ḥadīth reports coming from the canons of ḥadīth or available in works of Islamic historiography, or works of tafsīr.
During this aeon, spiritual truth was seen as external and transcendent, mediated by priesthoods and scriptures.
NOX is then further explained, and it is shown that the ultimate Trinity, O!, is supported, or fed, by the process of death and begetting, which are the laws of the universe...It is then asserted that the ultimate letter A has two names, or phases, Life and Death.
Of all the glories beheld by the Seer in the Aethyrs, there is not one which is worthy to be compared with her littlest finger-nail.
In a separate manuscript, Isaac Newton paraphrases Revelation 21 and 22 and relates the post 2060 events by writing: A new heaven & new earth.
In these, after a speculative introduction on forms of government in general, holding monarchy to be relatively the best, Bellarmine says that a monarchical government and the related temporal power are necessary for the Church to preserve unity and order.
Rational fideism is the philosophical view that considers faith to be precursor for any reliable knowledge.
The Baháʼí teachings do not accept the doctrine of original sin, instead teaching that babies come into the world without sin.
American Spiritualists of the 19th and 20th centuries often described their guides as resembling Native Americans.
Some scholars of Islamic dietary laws have ruled that it is forbidden for Muslims to eat elephant because elephants fall under the prohibited category of fanged or predatory animals.
In common with many traditional commentators, Hilborn goes on to argue that condemnation of homosexual activity is derived from the "broad contours" of Paul's argument, in addition to the selective reading of individual words or phrases.
Related problems include the problem of the existence of God, the nature of laws of nature, the problem of evil and the question of why God allows (or causes) natural disasters and tragedies to happen, and questions surrounding the notion of fate or destiny.
In his books, he portrayed the Typhonian tradition as the world's oldest spiritual tradition, suggesting that it had ancient roots in Africa.
Synchromysticism has been described as a phenomenon "existing on the fringe of areas already considered fringe".
Scytale offers to revive Chani as a ghola, revealing the full purpose behind Hayt's presence and the restoration of his memories.
In addition to the gradual 23 year revelation until his death, there was an 'immediate revelation' that happened on the Laylat al-Qadr.
They both have separate belief systems and live life accordingly, but logically one is right and the other is not.
Paul refuses, considering the possibility that the Tleilaxu might program a Chani ghola in some diabolical way.
A declaration of faith is a phrase that is said by a member of any religion to show either to themselves, their God or other members of the religion their belief and faith in the religion.
Erlendur Haraldsson investigated one of the Hindu swamis, who are associated with frequent and widely accepted claims of materializations of objects or substances, namely Gyatri Swami, and reached a negative conclusion regarding his claims.
It is taught as an academic discipline, typically in universities, seminaries and schools of divinity.
In 1588, Pope Sixtus V issued the Bull Effraenatam, which subjected those that carried out abortions at any stage of gestation with automatic excommunication and the punishment by civil authorities applied to murderers.
While lay theories have been studied previously, recent comprehensive research has begun to explore the structure, origins, stability, and consequences of these beliefs across a range of domains.
Herder postulated that the soul is a composite entity, with the dark aspect prevailing to a greater extent.
First, the year after Þorlákur helgi Þórhallsson became bishop of Skálholt in 1178, he began to demand control over ecclesiastical estates, following the reforms of Archbishop Eysteinn Erlendsson of Niðarós.
Fragments from Manetho (Eusebius, George Syncellus and preserved in Felix Jacoby's FGrH), however, list different dates.
Provincial councils, which consist of the bishops of an ecclesiastical province smaller than a nation, are convoked by the metropolitan with consent of a majority of the suffragan bishops.
Kirchliches Handlexikon: ein Nachschlagebuch über das Gesamtgebiet der Theologie und ihrer Hilfswissenschaften is a two-volume book published in parts in Munich in 1904–12.
Number symbolism is an ancient and pervasive aspect of human thought, deeply intertwined with religion, philosophy, mysticism, and mathematics.
Names of court cards Crowley accepted the Golden Dawn's changed names of all the court cards which can cause some confusion for people used to the more common decks.
The Cake of Light is the eucharistic host found within Thelema, the religion founded by English occult writer Aleister Crowley in 1904.
In the more specific sense used here theism refers to a particular doctrine concerning the nature of a God and its relationship to the universe.
Their specific attributes and number are unknown; Jean-René Jannot suggests that they may represent either an archaic principle of divinity or "the very fate that dominates individualized gods".
Procedure The complete Chua K'a Bodywork procedure consists of a comprehensive self-bodywork of the 27 zones of the body, followed by a rolling of the skin (skin rolling), and ending with the application of the k'a stick.
When you think of the giant technological strides that man has made in a few millennia—less than a microsecond in the chronology of the universe—can you imagine the evolutionary development that much older life forms have taken?
He introduced the enthusiastic Jefferson to the writings of the British Empiricists, including John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton.
Jesus asks around the crowd: "Who touched me/my clothes?" Luke claims that all those in the crowd denied they did it, and has Peter say that crowds are pressing against Jesus (Mark only reports the latter, from the mouths of "the disciples").
Volumes Lexicon Iconographicum Mythologiae Classicae (LIMC), Artemis & Winkler Verlag (Zürich, München, Düsseldorf), 1981-1999 ISBN 3-7608-8751-1 Vol.
However, regardless of its original meaning, the syllable Om evolves to mean many abstract ideas even in the earliest Upanishads.
This manifestation of Buddhism is particularly marked in the Dzogchen and Tathagatagarbha forms of the religion.
As revealed in Albanian epic poetry, the Zana observe Albanian battles, offering their assistance and protection where needed.
See also Agnosticism Argument from ignorance Debunker Denialism Pseudoscience Pseudorationalism Scientism The New Inquisition == Notes and references ==
It was written while Bellarmine was lecturing at the Roman College, and was first published at Ingolstadt in three volumes (1586, 1588, 1593).
There are other activities (anupatakas) which are mentioned as equivalent to committing these five great sins.
The Anishinaabe Midewiwin, or Grand Medicine Society, considers the area containing the petroforms to be Manito Ahbee, where the Creator sits.
As for the argument presented in The Brothers Karamazov's section "The Rebellion" that the suffering of innocents was not worth the price of free will, Dostoevsky appears to propose the idea of apocatastasis (or universal reconciliation) as one possible rational solution.
In 2016, Kenneth Baker's translation of the first three controversies was published as Controversies of the Christian Faith.
Oaks of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, likened the attacks against religious people to voter intimidation against black people during the American civil rights movement.
Transformed by this gracious infusion of power, he easily demolishes the villain and rescues his beloved.
The Iliad recounts the Trojan War between the city of Troy and a coalition of Mycenaean Greek states, leading to the destruction of Troy.
In Beienrode he founded the Haus der helfenden Hände ("house of helping hands") to ease the plight of refugees from the former East Germany, later working for mutual understanding among Germans and the peoples of Eastern Europe.
According to Hinduism, pāpa (sin) is a transgression, or demerit, signifying deeds or intentions that transgress moral and spiritual laws, resulting in negative karma and tying a person to the cycle of rebirth (samsara).
In the 16th century, the Ottomans built the larger al-Uzair Mosque to serve the town's (now Muslim) inhabitants and named it in honor of the town's patron saint, Lazarus of Bethany.
Ra-Hoor-Khuit or Ra-Hoor-Khut is the speaker in the third chapter of The Book of the Law, where the relationship with Heru-ra-ha and Hoor-pa-kraat is detailed in verse 35: The half of the word of Heru-ra-ha, called Hoor-pa-kraat and Ra-Hoor-Khut.
In most contexts, the concept of good denotes the conduct that should be preferred when posed with a choice between possible actions.
See also Atziluth Central Fire Heaven Hyperuranion Paradise Pleroma Seven Heavens Third Heaven Firmament References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
The bull was also a foundational document in the history of the Catholic Church's process of beatification and canonization.
This means that the commands of natural law do not depend on God's will, and thus form the first three commandments of the Ten Commandments.
(1809), Natural Theology: or, Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity (12th ed.) Quammen, David (2006), The Reluctant Mr.
The first volume, titled Gnosis und spätantiker Geist I: Die mythologische Gnosis (Gnosis and the spirit of late antiquity I: The Mythological Gnosis), was published in 1934, and focused on a relatively direct application of Jonas's phenomenological analysis of Gnostic qua phenomena.
Later, Blavatsky altered her understanding of the rite to mean that drug-induced trance-like state in which a new initiate first comprehends spiritual things.
The final book, L'interprétation critique du miracle royal (Critical Interpretation of the Royal Miracle), contains a single chapter outlining attempts to explain miracles rationally, and showing how people came to believe in them.
The doctrine of Karma in Hinduism requires both that we pay for our actions in the past, and that our actions in the present be free enough to allow us to deserve the future reward or punishment that we will receive for our present actions.
One of the better-known uses of this motif is by Mike Barr and Brian Bolland, who has Arthur and his knights returning in the year 3000 to save the Earth from an alien invasion in the comic book series Camelot 3000 (1982–85).
The notion of special intervention by God becomes problematic, for instance, if one also believes that God controls everything that happens, and that nothing happens that God does not will to happen.
Most authorities hold that it is not permissible to hasten death to avoid pain if one is dying in any event, but the Talmud is somewhat unclear on the matter.
The discipline arose through the growing impact of Alan Race's three-fold understanding of theology of religions, that resulted in various arguments about the benefits of the models of theology of religions.
Sproul, John Gerstner, and Arthur Lindsley argue that "Rational fideism is a contradiction in terms" since requiring a criterion for belief is non-fideistic as fideism begins with belief; that is, fideistic belief proceeds from faith rather than reaching faith as a result of rational query.
Second Agreed Statement, Geneva (1990) Returning to Geneva, the third official dialogue was held on 28 September 1990.
However, the gravity and culpability for that sin changes based on the circumstances surrounding that sin.
It was a simple and limitless entity, devoid of any limiting determinations, and was identical to the "Godhead," the supra-personal aspect of the divine.
In theology, many religions have creation myths explaining the origins of the world or its relationship to believers.
In the faith's eponymous text, the Book of Mormon, published on March 26, 1830, the premortal spirit of Christ appears in human form and explains that individuals were created in the beginning in the image of Christ.
Mäkelä inquired about prohibiting future 'lifestyle studies', and asked whether the government was going to compensate the interested parties for the costs caused by the group.
The group arrived in Finland with the support of Professor Erkki Pulliainen of the University of Oulu with the intention of "studying living in nature" and learning self-sufficiency.
He claimed that he was in contact with "The Association of Electrizers", a group of spirits including Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, John Quincy Adams, and Benjamin Rush, as well as Spear's namesake John Murray.
See also Notes References Bibliography Collections of synodal decrees The Canons of the first four general councils of Nicaea, Constantinople, Ephesus and Chalcedon (in Ancient Greek).
Nietzsche's eye saw this and in the first of his little pamphlets "David Strauss, der Bekenner und der Schriftsteller" ("David Strauss, the Confessor and the Writer"), he bore down on Strauss's bourgeoise pseudo-skepticism most savagely.
After Pulliainen pulled his support, the Finnish Immigration Office did not want to extend the residency permit of the group.
Several ultra-orthodox groups such as the Wahhabis, in turn, see themselves as the only truly orthodox groups within Islam.
The concept of personal freedom does not exceed the boundaries of servitude to Allah, the Lord of the Worlds.
Obtaining more than one's fair portion (ὑπὲρ μοῖραν "over the portion") of loot, or of life in general was possible, but would result in severe consequences because this was considered a violation in the natural order of things.
Before a person can be accepted as a saint, they must be posthumously confirmed to have performed two miracles.
Depictions of world trees, both in their directional and central aspects, are found in the art and mythological traditions of cultures such as the Maya, Aztec, Izapan, Mixtec, Olmec, and others, dating to at least the Mid/Late Formative periods of Mesoamerican chronology.
The Idea of the Holy: An Inquiry into the Non-Rational Factor in the Idea of the Divine and its Relation to the Rational (German: Das Heilige.
According to his own claims, in September 1939, a British occultist named Gerald Gardner was initiated into the coven and subsequently used its beliefs and practices as a basis from which he formed the tradition of Gardnerian Wicca.
See also Analytical psychology Argument from religious experience Fear of God Religious ecstasy Religious experience Sacred Sacred–profane dichotomy Sense of wonder Soul flight References Further reading Allen, Douglas.
A number of Athenian men, including Alcibiades, were sentenced to death for impiety in 415 BC, most of whom fled Athens before execution (Andocides was later charged in 400 or 399 BC in reference to these events).
Essentially, chaos magic consists of a set of techniques for deliberately engineering synchronicities.
He suggests that it describes an oracle given by a seer for a priest called "Allu-Kal" who wished to rebuild dwellings or a temple of cedar wood.
Barušs stated that he did record several events that sounded like voices, but they were too few and too random to represent viable data and too open to interpretation to be described definitively as EVP.
In Tenrikyo, Izanagi-no-Mikoto and Izanami-no-Mikoto are the equivalents of Adam and Eve in Abrahamic religions.
The Mystagogy of the Holy Spirit is a work by Photius I who was Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople (858 to 867 and 877 to 886).
Practical applications True Will is not only a philosophical concept but also a practical guide for living within Thelemic communities.
This caused Israel to perish by the sword, and to scatter their remnant, and to humiliate them, and to change the Torah, and to mislead most of the world into worshiping gods other than God.
See also Open-source religion References Citations Works cited Further reading External links Official website
One who knows this tree is the knower of the Vedas." (Bg 15.1) In Buddhism's Pali canon, the banyan (Pali: nigrodha) is referenced numerous times.
He was also at this time a council member of the Evangelical Church in Germany and the principal author of Darmstädter Wort zum politischen Weg unseres Volkes, a statement on relations between church and state after the end of Nazism and during the tensions of the Cold War.
Shinji Shumeikai (神慈秀明会), also known as Shumei, also follows the teachings of Okada and is considered a descendant of the church by CFAR.
In Albania, Tunisia, and Turkey, there have been discussions about legalizing same-sex marriage, but without success (one reason was that the huge majority of the people in those countries and also almost all political parties are against same sex marriage).
Christian Identity holds that all non-whites (people not of wholly European descent) will either be exterminated or enslaved in order to serve the white race in the new Heavenly Kingdom on Earth under the reign of Jesus Christ.
Notable examples During the 1930s, the popular radio program The Shadow used a signature evil laugh as part of its presentation.
There is disagreement over whether sexual arousal is enough, or sexual orgasm must be eventually accomplished.
Almost in the Index In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, of his own initiative, placed the first volume on a new edition of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying that the pope had direct temporal authority over the whole world.
According to the Arica School website: "Chua K'a—deep bodywork done on oneself—enables the body to evolve to its highest degree of sensitivity and awareness.
According to Pratibimba-vāda, the jiva consists of a reflection of the atman, and the mirror on which the reflection occurs is ignorance (avidya).
Ordo Templi Orientis: This Thelemic order offers a range of rituals, initiations, and teachings designed to facilitate the discovery and pursuit of True Will.
Hadit is the principal speaker of the second chapter of The Book of the Law, which was written or received by Aleister Crowley in 1904.
Bush's Second State of the Union Address at Wikisource 2002 State of the Union Address – President George W.
A person who underwent vision quests would be visited by an "animal, voice, or object", which would become their guardian spirit.
Mulhid (ملحد plural ملحدون mulḥidun and ملاحدۃ malāḥidah) is an Islamic religious term meaning apostate, atheist, infidel or heretic.
In October 1790, the National Convention banned priests, monks, nuns, and any who had previously occupied such positions from teaching in schools, and many members of the convention began calling for a “religion of patriotism” to supplant Catholic Christianity entirely.
The fifth article recognizes that at times it might be necessary to deal with the loathsome aspects of the human body and that the physician should do this with detachment, both for his or her own mental balance and so as not to embarrass the patient.
Then, letters were sent from the speaker of the House of Commons to sheriffs of each Parish communicating them about the decision and for them to also swear into it, as well as the Judges of Peace.
The bishop was sent in correspondence to the letter sent by Thoma to the Oriental Orthodox Patriarchate of Antioch.
Pratimokṣa texts may also circulate in separate pratimokṣa sūtras, which are extracts from their respective vinayas.
And if any of those ˹bondspeople˺ in your possession desires a deed of emancipation, make it possible for them, if you find goodness in them.
See also Indo-Persian ecclesiastical relations Malankara Church Goa Inquisition Synod of Diamper Notes Bibliography External links History of the Orthodox Church History of the Syro-Malabar Church Jacobite Syrian Church
16) which rejected transubstantiation, abjured the Papacy and the Jacobite succession, and gave allegiance to Queen Anne.
A letter from Bishop Ambrosius of Milan in the 4th century CE also describes arm rings being worn both by heathen Gothic priests and, to his displeasure, the Gothic Arian priests.
The time period for Dissenters subscribing to the oath was routinely extended, initially by an Indemnity Act at the start of each biennial parliamentary session.
The clergy split into juring priests (those who took the oath) and non-juring or refractory priests (those who refused).
In many countries, it is also standard for novice monks (samanera) to follow the Sekhiyavatta rules in addition to the Ten Precepts.
At one point of the account of the dedication of the Temple of Solomon, Solomon prays to Yahweh, asking him to hear and act upon curses uttered in a dispute that are then brought before his altar, to distinguish between the person in the right and the one in the wrong.
On 29 November 1791, the Legislative Assembly, which had by then replaced the Constituent Assembly, decreed that refractory priests could only exacerbate factionalism and aggravate extremists.
The most common symbols are Sign of Tinnit, a crescent with a disc, a hand or two spread up, and Caduceus.
When an issue is settled, the verdict should be in the presence of the sangha, the parties, the Dhamma and the Vinaya.
It was formerly usual to spell the word sónargǫltr and to interpret it as "atonement-boar" (the rare element sónar- can also mean "sacrifice").
The Apostolic Constitution Sponsa Christi of 21 November 1950 made access to that permission easier for nuns (in the strict sense), though not for religious institutes dedicated to apostolic activity.
Section 20 empowered the Four Courts to administer the prescribed oaths Section 21 allowed someone disabled under section 18 to be rehabilitated by subsequent conformity.
Columbus, the Niño brothers and the rest of the crew from Moguer headed immediately to Moguer, bringing with them some Caribbean natives whom they had taken on their voyage back, and also bringing several parrots.
At that time the doctor probably performed all the functions in the sick room, including that of nursing patients.
Social patterns and practices calculated to inflame sexual desire are frowned upon by Islam, such incitements to immorality including permissive ideologies, titillating works of art, and the failure to inculcate sound moral principles in the young.
The main difference between these two lineages of the bodhisattva vow is that in the Cittamatra lineage the vow cannot be received by one who has not previously received the pratimokṣa vows.
High Holidays Traditionally, around the High Holidays, all nedarim are annulled in order to free all persons of the liability in the event they are not fulfilled.
Thanes are given treasures such as rings, and after accepting them enter into an agreement to remain loyal in return; in this practice, the significance for building relations is in the cultural value of the exchange rather than the objective value of the ring, or other treasure, itself.
The oath was part of the LDS endowment Temple (Latter Day Saints) ceremony for over 80 years (1845–1927).
For women, those with simple vows were simply "sisters", with the term "nun" reserved in canon law for those who belonged to an institute of solemn vows, even if in some localities they were allowed to take simple vows instead.
Section 19 provided for rolls of those subscribing to the oaths under section 15 to 17 be kept at the Four Courts.
If one can remember having made a neder, he must recite it to at least three adult men who are familiar with the laws of the specific type of neder.
This becomes a recurring topos in later sagas, although we have only these two saga mentions attesting to the custom of making vows on the sacrificial animal.
The Holy September Martyrs, or Blessed Martyrs of Carmes (Bienheureux Martyrs des Carmes) were 191 Roman Catholics killed at the Carmes Prison in the September Massacres of 1792, consisting of three bishops, 127 secular priests, 56 monks and nuns, and five lay people, the vast majority non-jurors.
The declaration of faith, generally known as the Profession of Faith, may also feature within the Sacrifice of the Mass, especially in the Easter season.
Tamata may be bought in shops selling Greek Orthodox religious items, and then hung with a ribbon on a pole or hooks near an icon or shrine of a saint, the act of which is usually accompanied with a prayer, and sometimes with the lighting of a votive candle.
The neder may be a promise of prohibition or deprivation (neder issar, e.g., "Let all beans be forbidden to me for thirty days"), or a dedication to the Temple (neder heḳdesh, e.g.
All Vinaya ordinations at the time were given at Tōdai-ji in Nara and Saichō had wanted to both undermine the power of the Nara Buddhist community and to establish a "purely Mahayana lineage", and made a request to the Emperor to Later Buddhist sects, which was granted 7 days after his death in 822.
These appellations have been somewhat controversial, though, as both parties considered themselves the true heirs to the Saint Thomas tradition, and saw the other party as schismatic.
In 1772 Catholics were allowed to lease up to 50 Irish acres of bog-land for up to 61 years by the act 11 & 12 Geo.
In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the largest denomination in the Latter Day Saint movement, the priesthood is the power and authority to act in the name of God for the salvation of humankind.
For about 130 years (between 1847 and 1978) all LDS endowment-related temple ordinances and priesthood ordinations were denied to all Black people in a controversial priesthood racial restriction.
The law of chastity requires that sexual relations be reserved for marriage between a man and a woman.
Koch proposed that the formula, alongside the Welsh oath tyghaf tyghet ('I swear a destiny on you') and a Gaulish phrase from the Chamalières tablet, originated as a "taboo deformation" of an oath sworn to Lugus (a god whose name, he argues, derives from a Celtic word for oath).
Premise The Day of Atonement is one on which American black men swear to refrain from crime, drug addiction, and family abuse.
The surviving "convert roll" details are a valuable primary source for historians of 18th-century Ireland.
As well as excluding Roman Catholics from office, the "sacramental test" excluded Protestant Dissenters, notably Presbyterians, and many had to step down from municipal corporations and other positions.
The Pāḷi Canon contains a considerable amount of information about sickness, health, medicine, healing, medical care and medical ethics.
The one administering the tonsure must be an ordained priest, and must be a monk of at least the rank he is tonsuring the candidate into.
The Pāli texts describe that one undertakes the eight precepts on the observance days following the example of the enlightened disciples of the Buddha.
Eyes may indicate an eye affliction, hands or legs may indicate maladies of the limbs, a pair of wedding crowns may mean a prayer for a happy marriage, a torso for afflictions of the body, and so forth.
The Oath More Judaico or Jewish Oath was a special form of oath, rooted in antisemitism and accompanied by certain ceremonies and often intentionally humiliating, painful or dangerous, that Jews were required to take in European courts of law until the beginning of the 20th century.
For this purpose as many peas were selected as there were persons on board, one of them was marked with a cross, and the whole shaken together in a cap.
The most important source for the three kinds of precepts is the Bodhisattvabhūmi, which explains these as: Restraining precepts (saṃvaraśīla): These are the foundational rules of discipline derived from the prātimokṣa, which aim to prevent unwholesome actions.
Rather than being an instrument against internal conflicts, it fed on them when Speaker Lenthall send the additional letter demanding that all men above 18 years old sign the oath as a response to Charles I's attempt to arrest the Five Members of Parliament.
Serge Bianchi suggested using the term "Philosopher Priests," which is contemporary and avoids the historical issue associated with the term "Red Priests." History The Catholic Church in France prior to the crisis of 1788 Catholicism was the state religion.
The vows are regarded as the individual's free response to a call by God to follow Jesus Christ more closely under the action of the Holy Spirit in a particular form of religious living.
Someone who is chaste refrains from sexual activity that is considered immoral or from any sexual activity, according to their state of life.
Having crossed over, may I lead others across; comforted, may I comfort others; emancipated, may I emancipate others.
Vows from the Avataṃsaka Sūtra The Avataṃsaka Sūtra, a large composite text, contains various passages discussing the practices and vows that bodhisattvas undertake.
1442) Pratimokṣa in Buddhist traditions Indian Buddhism The Dharmaguptaka sect are known to have rejected the authority of the Sarvāstivāda pratimokṣa rules on the grounds that the original teachings of the Buddha had been lost.
The nazirite is described as being "holy" and "holy unto God"; yet at the same time, he or she must bring a sin offering.
Having joined the Federalist uprising, he was condemned to death by the Revolutionary Tribunal of Brest, and executed on 21 June 1794 only one month before the fall of Robespierre.
A perpetually professed religious who wishes to renounce his or her goods either partially or totally according to the norm of proper law and with the permission of the supreme moderator is to do the same.
Zhiyi explains that these vows correspond to the Four Noble Truths and that these vows arise with the four truths as their basis.
It has been utilized by academic historians such as Albert Mathiez, Albert Soboul (Marxist historian), and Father Bernard Plongeron from the Catholic Institute of Paris, specialist about the Constitutional Church.
Ann Eliza Young, former wife of LDS Church president Brigham Young, described, in her autobiography, her experience taking the oath of vengeance.
Asked how one is a "virtuous lay follower" (upāsako sīlavā), the Buddha replies that one undertakes the Five Precepts.
Annulment (hatarat nedarim) Generally, a neder is so strong, that it cannot be broken, and doing so constitutes an aveira (sin).
Lamourette was then sent to Paris for trial before the Revolutionary Tribunal, which found him guilty and sentenced death.
The preamble contains two quotes from the Pali Canon, the first line of verse 204 of the Dhammapada, and from the Vinaya, where the Buddha, after having attended to a sick monk neglected by his fellows, instructed his monks to care for each other when they are sick.
From the phrase "he must do," the rabbis deduced that there exists a positive commandment to fulfill what one said, as well as a negative prohibition not to desecrate one's word.
On 15 November 1793, he had resigned from the priesthood, but his past as a cardinal and bishop made the government suspicious of him.
Sexual acts outside of or apart from marriage, such as adultery, fornication, masturbation, and prostitution, are considered immoral due to lust.
That national declaration became the Protestation of 1641 and was, in fact, the first of three oaths of allegiance imposed by the Long Parliament between May 1641 and September 1643, being followed by Vow and Covenant and Solemn League and Covenant.
Many lower clergy had initially supported revolutionary calls for reform, even within the Church; but even among them, a large number thought that this was beyond the pale.
Charles I, attempting to end his Parliamentary problems once and for all, marched into Parliament on 4 January 1642, with 400 soldiers planning to arrest the Five Members of Parliament, leaders behind the demands of Parliament.
This does not necessarily mean, however, that a Buddhist devotee dressed in white is observing the eight precepts all the time.
Notes See also Animal worship Rings in Germanic cultures – objects used for oath swearing in Germanic cultures References Bibliography Primary === Secondary ===
In Eastern Orthodox Churches, and Eastern Catholic Churches (which latter are in full communion with Rome), married men may be ordained to any order except as bishops, and one may not marry after ordination as a subdeacon.
Soon, rumors began circulating that Charles I was backing the Irish rebels and that he at anytime would turn against Puritans, just as Strafford had suggested, thus spreading panic across the Puritans.
He considers Ó hUiginn's proposed explanation of the phrase "most unlikely", in view of the absence of documentation for this development, and the small number attestations of the Christian formula.
There were once significant technical differences between them in canon law, but these differences were suppressed by the current Code of Canon Law in 1983, although the nominal distinction is maintained.
God has commanded that this sacred power be expressed only between a man and a woman who are legally married.
Sherwood, Roy Edward, Oliver Cromwell: King In All But Name, 1653–1658, New York: St Martin's Press, 1997.
Recitation of Amitabha’s name (nianfo) and trust in his vow power are thus framed as the primary means of liberation, transforming Pure Land Buddhism into a profoundly accessible practice.
Fourfold vows Fourfold bodhisattva vows (that is, a set of vows with four main components), are found in numerous Mahāyāna sutras.
Never had royalists or other counter-revolutionaries had popular constituencies, but there were many who believed the state had no right to meddle in the affairs of God to this degree and were loyal to their local priests.
Under the latter view, in a marriage, it is a means of keeping marital partners in harmony by requiring women to discuss a neder with her husband before taking it on.
Taoism The Five Precepts of the Taoist religion include "no sexual misconduct", which is interpreted as prohibiting extramarital sex for lay practitioners and marriage or sexual intercourse for monks and nuns.
The most contentious aspect of the constitution, however, involved how new bishops were to be appointed to office and the duties required of them.
Offices and quorums of the Aaronic priesthood Priesthood leadership callings In addition to the regular offices of the Aaronic or Melchizedek priesthood, there are other leadership callings within the priesthood.
If the free consent of the wife had not been obtained, the husband, even if already ordained, was to be reunited with his wife, exercise of his ministry being barred.
References External links An Act to prevent the further Growth of Popery from Statutes Passed in the Parliaments Held in Ireland
Upon arriving there, she was told by the School of Hillel that she must observe her vow anew, and she therefore lived as a Nazirite for seven more years.
Nazir (Hebrew: נזיר) is a treatise of the Mishnah and the Tosefta and in both Talmuds, devoted chiefly to a discussion of the laws of the Nazirite laid down in Numbers 6:1-21.
They must also "receive the sacrament of the Lord's Supper according to the usage of the Church of Ireland".
However, many parish priests and other ‘low clergy’ sided with the Third Estate, representing their own class and the class of their flocks.
Both were successfully rebuffed by the Church, whose infrastructure, organization, man-power, and influence were still powerful in France.
External links Brahma Net Sutra Twenty Verses on the Bodhisattva Vow by Chandragomin The Actions for Training from Pledged Bodhichitta, Root Bodhisattva Vows and the Secondary Bodhisattva Vows by Dr.
Teske, "Votive Offerings and the Belief System of Greek-Philadelphians", Western Folklore 44:3, Healing, Magic, and Religion (July 1985), pp.
Only seven bishops and about half of the clergy agreed while the rest refused; the latter became known as "non-jurors" or "refractory priests".
Paul mentioned in Acts 18:18, was of a similar nature, although the shaving of his head in Cenchrea, outside of Judea, was not in conformity with the rules laid down in the sixth chapter of Numbers, nor with the interpretation of them by the schools of that era.
In Christianity In the New Testament In his Sermon on the Mount, Jesus taught that one's word should be reliable and that one should not swear by God or his creation.
Interpretation and discussion Heitstrengingar took place at Yule and other sacrificial feasts, weddings, arvals, and banquets and often acted as a form of bragging and promising the performance of an often great feat.
In the monastic tradition of all schools of Buddhism, the Vinaya expounds the vows of the fully ordained Nuns and Monks.
However, these lists have been useful to historians as a partial census of population, a guideline to estimate it, an important tool for genealogists in search of ancestors from before the English Civil Wars, and for academics interested in last name distributions before the civil wars erupted.
Under the ancien regime, France was divided into three Estates, and the clergy occupied the First Estate, with the aristocracy comprising the Second Estate, and the commoners the Third Estate.
Buddhist tradition therefore requires lay people to be chaste on observance days, which is similar to the historical Indian tradition of being chaste on parvan days.
Lou Engle, a Charismatic evangelical American leader, has written Nazarite DNA, which outlines a metaphorical interpretation of the vow.
Upāsaka and Upāsikā, genyen) — 5 vows The lay pratimokṣa consists of five vows that are also known as the Five Śīlas: To refrain from killing.
But one who is unable to do this can rely on the Kol Nidre of the community, which is recited on behalf of all Jews.
Gamaliel records in the Mishna show the father of Rabbi Chenena made a lifetime nazirite vow before him.
Physician Ming-Jun Hung and his co-authors have analyzed early and medieval Chinese Buddhist Texts and argue that the main purposes of the half-day fast is to lessen desire, improve fitness and strength, and decrease sleepiness.
In Harðar saga, Hróarr steps on a log at Yule before making a vow to break into the grave mound of the viking Sóti, followed by Hǫrðr vowing to accompany him and a third vowing to follow Hǫrðr, forming a formula also seen in Hrólfs saga kraka.
Of the ten instructive discourses contained in the Citta Saṃyutta, three of the discourses deal with the questions posed by Citta to the bhikkhus, three of them are queries put to Citta by the bhikkhus, and four refer to personal events.
These vows demonstrate both the social movement aspect of Navayana Buddhism, and demonstrate its core deviation from earlier schools of Buddhism.
Fully professed Jesuits (known as "the professed of the fourth vow" within the order), take a vow of particular obedience to the Pope to undertake any mission laid out in their Formula of the Institute.
The public profession of the evangelical counsels (or counsels of perfection), confirmed by vow or other sacred bond, is a requirement of Canon Law.
Still one must study the Torah and observe its commandments, even though he is not in the proper mood, since he will gradually acquire thereby a sympathetic frame of mind" (23b).
Oaths were a feature of legal processes, but were also made in everyday life to emphasise assertions.
On multiple occasions, the state attempted to revoke the Church's tax-free status in order to tap into its significant financial resources, with official declarations calling for formal surveys of the Church's wealth and subsequent taxations being levied in 1749 and 1780.
A key figure in this resistance was Ahatallah, a Syrian Orthodox archbishop who arrived in India and was regarded by many Saint Thomas Christians as a potential leader capable of restoring their traditional practices.
Further, it was ineffective in uniting the realm under Charles I and averting a civil war, as the English Civil Wars began shortly after.
Revocation Sixty years later, the Constitutio Romana was temporarily revoked by Pope Marinus I when he issued a decree stating that the emperors would not interfere, either directly or through their ambassadors, in the election of a pope.
Charles decided to go on the offensive against the Scottish revolt without Parliament and recalled Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford from Ireland to lead his army in Scotland.
Ten vows of Samantabhadra In the Avataṃsaka Sūtra, Samantabhadra makes ten vows which are an important source for East Asian Buddhism.
In addition to reserving sexual intimacy for marriage, we obey the law of chastity by controlling our thoughts, words, and actions.
Teresa of Calcutta centuries later (1940s) take a fourth vow of special service to "the poorest of the poor".
In Jeremiah 12, an opportunity is also described for Israel's neighbors to avoid destruction and prosper if they stop swearing by their idol and swear only by the name of Yahweh.
Tongu do dia toinges mo thúath is an Old Irish oath which translates to 'I swear by the god by whom my people (túath) swear'.
Eight Constitutional bishops were executed on the guillotine, three had been important political figures in the first years of the Revolution: Fauchet, Lamourette, and Gobel.
Honoring the six directions is a "means fulfilling one's reciprocal responsibilities in each of these relationships".
A neder to be a Nazirite for a period of time or sometimes for life for any of the above-described reasons.
Since the eight precepts are often upheld on the Buddhist uposatha days, they are called the uposatha vows or one-day precepts in such context.
The seventh and final article requires the physician to minister to the patient even if all the signs indicate that he or she is not responding to the treatment and will probably die.
It can have no such application, as the Endowments were given long before the death of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, and have not been changed.
Vows in religious institutes In medieval times religious vows taken by members of religious institutes approved by the Holy See were regarded both as solemn and public.
On the other hand, Ruairí Ó hUiginn has argued that the oath was a scholarly Christian invention, contrived to suit the pagan background of the Old Irish sagas.
Formal ceremonies for conferring bodhisattva precepts, along with confession rituals modeled on uposadha practices, are detailed in various Mahāyāna texts.
Chapter 5: Cases in which a person dedicates or vows something by mistake; Nazarites who had made their vows before the destruction of the Temple, and, on coming to Jerusalem to offer their sacrifices, had learned that the Temple had been destroyed (§ 4); conditional Nazaritic vows (§§ 5-7).
President Woodruff—I have already said that there is nothing of that kind in any part or phase of "Mormonism." I ought to know about that as I am one of the oldest members of the Church.
A good deal is being made of a form of prayer based upon two verses in the sixth chapter of the Revelations of St.
Notably, rejecting Mahāyāna as the Buddha’s word (buddhavacana) is a significant infraction, reflecting historical debates over the authenticity of Mahāyāna sūtras.
In Western Christian morality, chastity is placed opposite the deadly sin of lust, and is classified as one of seven virtues.
Based on this commandment, Second Temple Judaism by the Hellenistic period developed a taboo of pronouncing the name Yahweh at all, resulting in the replacement of the Tetragrammaton by "Adonai" (literally "my lord") in pronunciation.
However, the hostile reception that some juror priests received in their home parishes forced the Assembly to moderate its position.
Renunciation of the right to own property is now a matter for the constitutions of the religious institute in question and is associated not with the solemnity of the vows but with their perpetuity.
Sir Toby Butler, the former Solicitor General for Ireland, a Roman Catholic, made a celebrated speech at the bar of the Commons denouncing the act as being "against the laws of God and man...
However, non-juring clergy were permitted to celebrate the Mass and attract crowds because the Assembly feared that stripping them of all of their powers would create chaos and arouse sympathy for its clerical opponents.
The 1983 Code of Canon Law maintains the distinction between solemn and simple vows, but no longer makes any distinction between their juridical effects.
The Catholic Church considers Protestant, including most Anglican ordinations invalid, while recognizing Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox.
If a disciple hears but a single word of slander against the Buddha from externalists or evil beings, he experiences a pain similar to that of three hundred spears piercing his heart.
In English translations of the Bible, the name Adonai is often translated "Lord", while the proper name Yahweh represented by the tetragrammaton is often indicated by the use of capital and small capital letters, Lᴏʀᴅ.
It appears in several forms in Irish literature (Ó hUiginn has listed 25), though the variation is more limited in the Old Irish period, only diversifying in the transition to Middle and Early Modern Irish.
It constitutes one of the religious vows which are made both by members of the religious institutes and diocesan hermits.
At the same time, there was enough support for a basically Catholic form of Christianity that some means had to be found to fund the Church in France.
Offices of the Melchizedek priesthood Quorums of the Melchizedek priesthood Holders of priesthood offices are organized into quorums.
This profession of faith cannot have been presented to the Exarch of Ravenna at any time after the papacy revolted – soon after 727 (see Eutychius (exarch)) – against the Emperor.
Nazirites in Late Second Temple Judaism: A Survey of Ancient Jewish Writings, the New Testament, Archaeological Evidence, and other Writings from Late Antiquity.
If a monk breaks any rule here he has to undergo a period of probation or discipline after which, if he shows himself to be repentant, he may be reinstated by a sangha of not less than twenty monks.
In some Buddhist countries, such as Sri Lanka and Thailand, capital punishment was applied during some periods, while during other periods no capital punishment was used at all.
(A) Aham-pi: "Ārogyaparamā lābhā" ti maṭṭāmi, Tathāgataṁ upaṭṭhātukāmomhi, tasmāhaṁ mayhaṁ vejjakammena ārogyabhāvaṁ vaḍḍhemi ceva gilānaṁ hitāya dayena anukampāya upaṭṭhahāmi.
and all his pomps?" To each of these interrogations the person, or the sponsor in his name, answers: "I do renounce".
As Jacob Grimm pointed out, the serving of a boar's head at banquets and particularly at The Queen's College, Oxford, may also be a reminiscence of the Yule boar-blót.
Throughout the Völsunga saga, curse is fulfilled with the owners of the ring dying, including Otr's father Hreiðmarr, his brother Fáfnir (who becomes a dragon after claiming it) and the hero Sigurð.
I shall have no faith in Rama and Krishna, who are believed to be incarnation of God, and I shall not worship them.
In early Mormonism, repentance for crimes such as murder or adultery, where restitution is not possible, involved personal sacrifice in order to make redemption possible through the atonement of Jesus Christ.
In Mormonism, the oath of vengeance (or law of vengeance) was part of the endowment ritual of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) implemented in 1845.
On 5 February 1791, non-juring priests were banned from preaching in public in the hope that this would silence the opposition to the Constitution from religious quarters.
11:46; etc.), the term in Numbers 6:6 is usually taken to imply the human dead, which seems to be its most focused meaning according to Numbers 6:7.
Lazard Isidor, as rabbi of Pfalzburg, refused in 1839 to open the synagogue for such an oath; prosecuted for contempt of court, he was defended by Crémieux and acquitted.
However, a bishop – who, in the Orthodox Church, must always be a monk – may tonsure a monk or nun into any degree regardless of his own monastic rank.
On one side, the Cavaliers or Loyalists were followers of the Church of England that wanted to maintain the traditional forms of government in Church and State based on the monarch.
This created a schism within the French clergy, with those taking the oath known as juring priests, and those refusing the oath known as non-juring clergy or refractory clergy.
Section 2 empowered judges to summon children to court to prove they had not gone abroad without licence under section 1.
During the 20th century, the largest Mormon denomination, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), gradually softened the graphic nature of their penalties, and in 1990, removed them altogether from its version of the ceremony.
Exceptions Most of the inscriptions include a general dedication (the ʾš ndr part), but a minority of them include a certain specific vowed object(s): obelisks and masks, copper altar, wooden cart/carts/female calf, et cetera.
Joseph Sebastiani returned to Kerala in 1661 and within a short time period he restored most of the churches that had been with Thoma I to Rome.
Civil Constitution of the Clergy This new legislation dismantled and restructured the Church along the same lines as with the rest of society.
The Gospel of John relates an incident where a group attempts to stone Jesus after he speaks God's name.
A person who has honored these relationships and paid his respects to the six directions must then receive permission from his parents to accept the precepts.
Nevertheless, the members of the religious orders and those hermits who are in Holy Orders are members of the hierarchy.
Phoenician votive inscriptions or Punic votive inscriptions are votive inscriptions in the Phoenician and Punic religion, dedicated to a certain god or gods, mostly on stelae.
In practice To avoid coming under guilt by accidentally misusing God's name, Jewish scholars do not write or pronounce the proper name in most circumstances, but use substitutes such as "Adonai" ("the Lord") or "HaShem" ("the Name").
In the Lutheran Church Evangelical-Lutheran religious orders, such Daughters of Mary (sisters who have a devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary), and The Congregation of the Servants of Christ (monks who follow the Rule of Saint Benedict), take solemn vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience.
A prohibition of abortion is mentioned explicitly in the monastic precepts, and several Buddhist tales warn of the harmful karmic consequences of abortion.
Requirements for ordination The Aaronic priesthood is conferred upon male church members beginning at age eleven by the laying on of hands by men who hold either an office in the Melchizedek priesthood or the office of priest in the Aaronic priesthood.
It has been noted that this combination is also seen in an English context in the Breca episode of Beowulf.
Finally, an earlier, less well-known theory by Indologist Jean Przyluski proposes a Babylonian origin.
This was mostly because of the influence of Anagarika Dharmapāla (1864–1933), who observed the ten precepts (similar to the eight) continuously, maintaining a status between lay person and monk.
1150): a wreath of thorns would be hung on the swearer's neck, others would grovel at his knees, and a thorn branch five ells in length would be pulled "between his loins" while he swore and called down upon himself all the curses of the Torah.
This ceremony organised on 14 October 1956 in Nagpur included 22 vows administered to all new converts after Three Jewels and Five Precepts.
The vow of enclosure is a religious vow made by some branches of the Poor Clares in addition to the three vows of obedience, poverty and chastity.
The choice of a boar indicates a connection with Freyr, whose mount is the gold-bristled boar Gullinbursti, and the continuing Swedish tradition of eating pig-shaped cakes at Christmas recalls the early custom.
As a Buddha's disciple, he ought to nurture a mind of compassion and filial piety, always devising expedient means to rescue and protect all beings.
The Sacred Name (Tetragrammaton), is never pronounced by these Jews but always read as "Adonai (the Lord)," "HaShem (the Name)," or sometimes "AdoShem".
By June 1790 the Assembly had officially abolished the nobility, and on July 12 passed the Civil Constitution of the Clergy.
Sekhiyavatta There are seventy-five sekhiya or rules of training, which are mainly about the deportment of a monk.
While friends, advisors, and even his wife had been strongly urging him to flee the country, Louis had resisted these suggestions.
Theory of ethics Studying lay and monastic ethical practice in traditional Buddhist societies, Spiro argued ethical guidelines such as the five precepts are adhered to as a means to a higher end, that is, a better rebirth or enlightenment.
In many Christian denominations, the taking of baptismal vows incorporates a person into church membership.
In some periods and places the precepts were widely observed, such as in 7th–10th-century China by government officials.
The concept proposes that the probability of being shot by the police depends on ethnicity in addition to the other known factors like location, the income of the neighborhood and whether or not the person is carrying a weapon as well as the emotions shown by the victim.
IGN gave the series a positive review, stating that it was more authentic to the franchise than either of the larger budgeted Street Fighter feature films, as well as one of the best live-action video-game adaptations overall, rating it an 8.7/10.
Párraga was shot in the head and body, by a hitman who entered the restaurant and fled with an associate afterwards.
Donat's, and from old papers he had collected wrote one of the first histories of Glamorgan, The Winning of the Lordship of Glamorgan out of Welshmens' Hands, thereby creating the legend of the Twelve Knights of Glamorgan, followers of Robert FitzHamon, Norman conqueror of Glamorgan.
Austria In December 2020, the Austrian Constitutional Court ruled that the prohibition of assisted suicide was unconstitutional.
Manhunt On February 22, Ribeiro was killed in a confrontation with the Military Police in a wooded area near the Presidente João Figueiredo Airport, 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) from Sinop.
His father Peter Vogel was a well known German actor, whose career included a role in the 1978 US TV Miniseries Holocaust.
On 13 July, a night march was summoned in honor of those killed during the protests, including Castillo, marching to the places where the demonstrators died.
Pius student, opened fire on his classmates with a shotgun, killing a 17-year-old classmate named Mark Hough and wounding five others before killing himself with a shotgun blast to the head.
He captured the Byzantine general Manuel Kamytzes, who was sent against him; Kamytzes was ransomed by his son-in-law, Ivanko's rival, Dobromir Chrysos.
Most of the states that have perpetrated genocide and their citizens deny or ignore it, reject responsibility for the harms suffered by victims, and want to draw a line under the past.
Chand was subsequently charged with Marceau's murder, but on 17 October 2012 was acquitted of her murder by reason of insanity.
His first marriage was to singer-dancer Dolores Elizabeth Milligan Cooke, who took the stage name "Dee Dee Mohawk" in 1953; they divorced in 1958.
The third line, a further ten yards from the second police line, consisted of a Philippine Marine Corps unit, the Marine Civil Disturbance Control Battalion.
The series started a Kickstarter crowdsource funding campaign in order to source funds for production.
One of the bullets struck her, and she was transferred in critical condition to Imam Khomeini Hospital in Nur.
The fact that she had concealed her pregnancy and given birth alone were considered evidence of her guilt.
The Infanticide Act (Swedish: Barnamordsplakatet), often referred to as "Infanticide act of Gustav III" (Gustav III:s barnamordsplakat) after its instigator Gustav III of Sweden, was a historical Swedish law, which was introduced in 1778 and in effect until 1917, with alterations in 1856.
However, Spinei himself responded to the suggestion of a Turkic origin of the individual based on the Turkic etymology of his name by saying that a name's etymology does not always reflect its bearer's ethnicity.
On February 14, 2025, the remains of 14-year old Emily Pike were found off Highway 60 in the state of Arizona.
On the day following the shooting, the National Cabinet, which consists of the leaders of Australia's state and territory governments and the prime minister, unanimously agreed to strengthen gun laws.
Superintendent Press was also praised for acting "in utter disregard for his own life" by planting the explosive that flushed out William Unek.
Seton was buried next to his father at St Mary's Church, Fordingbridge on the 10 June, after a funeral procession from Southsea to Fordingbridge.
The Popol Vuh describes the history of the Kʼicheʼ people and their rulers and mentions the important position of the Maya ballgame.
United Kingdom England and Wales In English criminal law, attempted murder is the crime of simultaneously preparing to commit an unlawful killing and having a specific intention to cause the death of a human being under the King's Peace.
A composite sketch of the woman, presented on Aktenzeichen XY… ungelöst, finally led her mother to positively identifying her in November 1994.
In this way, the question of killing baby Hitler resembles the trolley problem, which utilitarianism responds to similarly.
Contents It presents selections of contrasting points of view on four central questions about euthanasia: whether it is ethical; whether it should be legalized; whether legalizing it would lead to involuntary killing; and whether physicians should assist in suicide.
Bethlem Gabor, Lord of Transylvania Female patriotism, or The death of Joan d'Arc About Burk Joseph Tinker Buckingham.
However, in both cases there are doubts whether the lot drawing was fair (and whether it even happened), since the lot fell, conveniently from the viewpoint of the core crew, on an "obvious victim".
There is a debate within the medical and bioethics literature about whether or not the non-voluntary (and by extension, involuntary) killing of patients can be regarded as euthanasia, irrespective of intent or the patient's circumstances.
Some, on the other hand, are serial killers who utilize this modus operandi either exclusively or when it suits them.
Piquett said Dillinger would have to pay $5,000 for the plastic surgery: $4,400 split between Piquett, Loeser and O'Leary, and $600 to Dr.
Mass shootings have been documented using a variety of methods, including body cameras and closed-circuit television cameras (CCTV).
Other killings, such as the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, are generally disqualified as "regicides", because this crown prince had not yet taken the throne.
In the Netherlands and Belgium, euthanasia is understood as "termination of life by a doctor at the request of a patient".
After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, tyrannicide continued in the Eastern Roman Empire when Emperor Andronikos I Komnenos was tied to a pillar, beaten, and dismembered by a mob in 1185.
In October 2000, he was commemorated by a group of Macedonians as a martyr for the Macedonian cause.
Mazurok then apparently went on the run for over a month, before his body was found in the woods near Kyiv's Dorohozhychi metro station.
He defined totalitarianism as follows: There is much confusion about what is meant by totalitarian in the literature, including the denial that such systems even exist.
This may be due to the fact that male civilians are often targeted during warfare as a way to remove those considered to be potential combatants, and during genocide as a way to destroy the entire community.
Though not specified in the texts, it seems likely that the real king also did not wear any outward signifiers of kingship nor occupy the throne during the reign of the substitute.
The Prebilovci massacre (Serbian: Масакр у Пребиловцима) was an atrocity and war crime perpetrated by the Croatian Ustaše in the Independent State of Croatia during the World War II genocide of Serbs.
Though not confirmed, it has been suspected that similar occurrences happen in the wild due to tourists.
Charles Amadeus served in the Army of Flanders in 1645, and in the following year commanded the light cavalry at the siege of Kortrijk.
Origin RentAHitman.com was bought and registered by Bob Innes of Northern California on February 5, 2005, for US$9.20.
We know that Callimachus, as well as his contemporary Euphorion, told the story of the dismembered child, and Byzantine sources quote Callimachus as referring to the birth of a "Dionysos Zagreus", explaining that "Zagreus" was the poet's name for a chthonic Dionysus, the son of Zeus by Persephone.
In fear of infanticide, female jaguars will not tolerate the presence of any male, even the father of the litter, once she gives birth to her cubs.
1 Kings 16:31 relates that his daughter Jezebel married Ahab (874 – 853 BC), and Phoenician influence in Samaria and the other Israelite cities was extensive.
Abdul Khaliq Hazara (Dari/Hazaragi: عبدالخالق هزاره; 1916 — December 18, 1933) was an Afghan Hazara high school student who assassinated the King of Afghanistan, Mohammad Nadir Shah, on 8 November 1933, during an award distribution ceremony.
As Rasmussen did not have any known victims during the five years between Beaudin's disappearance and Lisa's abandonment, her answer led police to believe that he may have had more unknown victims.
Italian poet Isabella di Morra was killed by her brothers around 1546 for a suspected affair with a married nobleman, whom they also murdered.
The investigators believe that Vornanen-Karaduman confused the concealed bodies with each other, so this child was more likely born in December 2010.
NATO definitions The military organisation NATO uses the following definitions: Casualty In relation to personnel, any person who is lost to his organization by reason of being declared dead, wounded, diseased, detained, captured or missing.
This covers, in particular, claims that the victim has transgressed cultural, religious, social, or traditional norms or customs of appropriate behavior.
Emma Mills, headteacher of Birchwood Community High School said: "We are shocked and truly devastated to hear of the death of Brianna." A parent of one of Ghey's friends, speaking with the Daily Mail, alleged that the killing was a hate crime.
Three additional suspects, Abdessamad Ejjoud, Rachid Afatti, and Younes Ouaziad, were later apprehended by the police while riding a bus during the morning rush hour in the nearby city of Marrakesh.
Any advance refusal is legally binding providing that the patient is an adult, the patient was competent and properly informed when reaching the decision, it is clearly applicable to the present circumstances and there is no reason to believe that the patient has changed their mind.
Cadeguala or Cadiguala was a Mapuche toqui elected in 1585 following the death in battle of the previous toqui Nangoniel.
In 1979, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago found that the government had withheld relevant documents, thereby obstructing the judicial process.
If a gun is used, the minimum sentence is four, five or seven years, dependent on prior convictions and relation to organized crime.
Shepherds Find Zenobia on the Banks of the Araxes by Paul Baudry (1850) "Shepherds Find Zenobia on the Banks of the Araxes" by William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1850) "Radamisto in atto di spingere Zenobia ferita nel fiume Arasse" by Francesco Alberi.
Lemkin brought his proposal to criminalize genocide to the newly established United Nations in 1946.
Victims The BBC mentions 73 victims, and the “Tigray: Atlas of the humanitarian situation” approximately 50 victims; 54 victims have been identified.
Euthanasia: Opposing Viewpoints is a book in the Opposing Viewpoints series, published by Greenhaven Press.
It was not uncommon that parents threw a child to the sharks in the Ganges River as a sacrificial offering.
Spanish Courts Corchado y Juarbe was a supporter of the Spanish Revolución of 1868, believing that the Spanish colonies will enjoy more liberties with the establishment of the new regime.
"Dostoevsky and Parricide" (German: Dostojewski und die Vatertötung) is an introductory article contributed by Sigmund Freud to a scholarly collection on the 1880 novel The Brothers Karamazov by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.
The witnesses were Albano José Correia, married, employed in commerce and Aquilino Ribeiro, single, publicist.
Mass Murder: A Small Person's Way to Immortality Mass shootings interactive map Online Encyclopedia of Mass Violence The real causes of mass murder by James Alan Fox.
The final report into the assassination of King Carlos and Prince Royal, which was ready for judicial investigation, disappeared (on 25 October 1910), shortly after the proclamation of the First Portuguese Republic.
Marshall argued that the versions of Cicero and Sallust constituted two different traditions, and that only Cicero implicated Catiline, other scholars have found no details in the two Late Republican accounts that are mutually exclusive or that exculpate Catiline.
In the 2020s, a soldier giving a coup de grâce to kill an incapacitated or seriously wounded soldier would be a war crime.
Figurative use Its meaning has extended to refer to the final event that causes a figurative death or ending.
Bloodied towels, sheets, clothing, cloths and a garden hose were used as crude instruments during the ordeal, and to hide the corpses after death, Kahlon hid them in her bedroom, spraying air freshener to mask the smell of decaying flesh.
Some cities are considered to be larger than the official metropolitan area or municipality determined by a country's respective government.
Sources and chronology Primary information related to Ithobaal comes from Josephus's citation of the Phoenician author Menander of Ephesus, in Against Apion i.18.
A sister of Tekena discovered that her brother and his friends were about to be killed via "jungle justice." She tried to intervene by screaming and reiterating their innocence but was overpowered by the size of the mob.
As of 2008, the Observatory demands the implementation of the declaration of Alerta de Violencia de Género contras las Mujeres in the State of Mexico.
The first interpretatio of Teutates as Mercury has caused a minority of scholars to identify Teutates with Caesar's Gaulish Mercury.
The CrustaStun design consists of a stainless-steel box approximately the size of a domestic microwave oven containing a tray with a wet sponge and an electrode.
In popular culture The Malaysian mythology surrounding hantu belian possessing humans and killing at random is a crucial plot point in The Night Tiger by Yangsze Choo.
Venice had in its employ a spy and intriguer, the Cretan adventurer and businessman David Mavrogonato, regarded as a malshin (moser) by the Jews of his native Heraklion, who was engaged in furthering Venetian interests in the Ottoman Empire's dominions in the Aegean.
There is no record of any punishment meted out to Spenser, who may have successfully argued self-defence.
In Europe, this practice is often referred to as "organ donation after euthanasia (ODE)." By 2020, MAiD through lethal intravenous injection had been legalized in eight countries, and over 17,000 procedures had been conducted.
Incidents of torture, extrajudicial killings and sexual violence have also persisted in the post war period especially against Tamils and other ethnic and sexual minorities.
During the summer of 1941, the Ustaša continued with mass murders of Serbs – of 1,000 inhabitants of Prebilovci, 820 of them were killed, while in the neighbouring places of the lower basin of the Neretva river, including Šurmanci, around 4,000 Serbs were killed.
King and his older brothers all eventually became involved in the betting scheme, with King later stating "So now what we did is we capitalized off of this here, and we hustled.
Ivanko (Bulgarian: Иванко, Greek: Ιβαγκός), also referred to by some scholars as Ivanko-Alexius, was a Vlach boyar who killed his cousin Ivan Asen I, the ruler of the renascent Second Bulgarian Empire, in 1196.
This is much higher than an often quoted figure in the popular press of 20 million, or a 2010s scholarly figure of 9 million.
Madman Entertainment and Manga Entertainment released the series in Australia and the UK, respectively.
Usually the victim is a woman who has violated sexual norms, such as refusing an arranged marriage or having relationships with unapproved, unrelated people.
Consistent with his views, he held inquests into all sudden deaths, including deaths in police custody.
Sultan of Sokoto Sa’adu Abubakar III and the Sokoto Sultanate Council also condemned the "unfortunate happenings" and urged security agencies to bring the perpetrators to justice.
In April 2025, Sim was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to eight years in prison, while Peh was given seven years' jail for not protecting his daughter from child abuse.
See also Infanticide Infanticide (zoology) Infanticide in carnivores Infanticide in rodents Sexual selection Siblicide == References ==
See also List of Brazilian federative units by homicide rate Crime in Brazil List of cities by murder rate Homicide in world cities List of countries by firearm-related death rate List of countries by intentional homicide rate == References ==
A sequel series, Street Fighter: World Warrior, which would have seen Ryu and Ken come into conflict with M.
Cultural impact In the controversial video game series Postal, the player takes on the role of a mass murderer in the first game, and in the later series a first-person role performing normally mundane chores (such as picking up a paycheck from work) with an often gratuitously violent twist.
December 17, 2006: Couple Jessica Ellen Stasinowsky, twenty, and Valerie Paige Parashumti, nineteen, drugged, beat, and strangled their sixteen-year-old flatmate, Stacey Mitchell, before disposing of her body in a wheelie bin in Lathlain, Western Australia.
Biography His plays were presented on the most important Parisian stages of his time including the Théâtre des Variétés, the Théâtre des Nouveautés, and the Théâtre de l'Ambigu-Comique.
Clifford's brother Bradley is also a convicted murderer, having been sentenced at the Old Bailey in 2018 and still in prison at the time of the Hunts' murders.
Moments before he died, he told his wife the following: Tell them my name, that I accomplished the mission of sacrificing my life for my country.
In 1767, Johnstone returned with Bell and several other Indian servants to London where they lived for four years, before the family moved to Balgonie House in Fife.
Florence Maybrick (1862–1941) spent fourteen years in prison in England after being convicted of murdering her considerably older English husband, James Maybrick, in 1889.
1342: Gediminas's funeral included a human sacrifice, with his favourite servant and several German slaves being burned on the pyre with the corpse.
It was created on 22 May 1611 for John Stradling, later Member of Parliament for St Germans and Old Sarum and Glamorgan.
We can't have a debate on US intervention overseas if we don't even know where are our forces are, let alone to what end".
Home media Funimation acquired the home video distribution rights and released the web series on DVD and Blu-ray under their Giant Ape label.
This reform applied to all types of agricultural land, both public and private, regardless of tenure arrangement and crops produced.
In Tekken Tag Tournament, she was noted as "feared by many players" due to her many combos that are difficult to counter, but her command list has a high execution barrier; she is a challenge, requiring a lot of practice to master.
Conversely, some cities are also considered to be significantly smaller than their official metro area(s) designations.
Accounts from earlier famines indicate that wealthy people sometimes purchased poor children when their starving parents had to sell them, and then used them as a source of meat.
Staggie's daughter, Ingrid Carolus, came out of their house two hours after the shooting, screaming: "He's dead, he's dead!" The shooting occurred after another Hard Livings leader, Ballie Tips, was shot and killed in Mitchells Plain the previous night.
Views on women Honor killings are often a result of strongly misogynistic views towards women and the position of women in society.
Thus the New Fire Ceremony started the new cycle and ensured the sun would return each day for another 18,980 days.
Livestreaming has been a way for mass shooters to gain public attention, and several mass shootings have been livestreamed, either through webcams or body-worn cameras.
Homo sacer is defined in legal terms as someone who can be killed without the killer being regarded as a murderer; and a person who cannot be sacrificed.
The poll caused the hashtag #babyhitler to begin trending on Twitter, as the social media platform's users debated the subject.
The intentions of those who carried out these acts may be unrecoverable; surviving sources only indicate which elements were worth noting and might be construed as sacral.
To dispose of the evidence of their crime, the Titans chopped the body into pieces, cooked, and ate them.
Malampaka is part of Sukumaland and located roughly halfway between the cities of Shinyanga and Mwanza, about 40 miles (64 km) southeast of the latter.
The recovered bullet was a 6.35 caliber bullet from an automatic pistol, a weapon that was not used by the Portuguese police at the time, fueling speculation that some para-military personnel had killed him.
King Den After the death of King Den, about 230 individuals died simultaneously for "something or someone of extreme importance".
Since they both had the same first name, Van Doren at one point suggested that everyone in the skydiving club call her younger friend "Babs" so there would be less confusion.
Peter Grey describes Rima's poetry as "delicate" and "beautiful": usually reflecting European scenes even though her characters and plots were oriental.
Involuntary manslaughter encompasses manslaughter due to an unlawful and dangerous act, due to criminal levels of negligence, and due to reckless actions.
In a last attempt, she contacted family members and the police but the men had been killed by the time the assistance was sought.
It was bombed in mid-November 2020, then shelled by artillery fire a few weeks later, resulting in heavy destruction of property and multiple civilian deaths.
For marriage bride price is paid to the parents of the bride by the groom, which is a striking feature of the Khonds.
The court also heard updated assessments by psychiatrists of the perpetrators: Jenkinson has anti-social personality disorder rather than autism, and that Ratcliffe has a "mild" form of autism spectrum disorder.
A Noble Rake: The Life of Charles, Fourth Lord Mohun; being a Study in the Historical Background of Thackeray's "Henry Esmond".
In return, Nicholas mortgaged his properties in Bread Street and Southwark to Collet and Browne for the supposed amount of the debts, £1478.
Once there, Ramos tried to reconcile the matter by talking to her attacker to avoid hitting her, but Martínez ignored her and began to hit her.
On 22 June 2017, Vallenilla was in a protest on the Francisco Fajardo highway, in Caracas, when a military official fired a shotgun at him from inside the La Carlota air base.
In popular culture Several notable artists and entertainers have dedicated their work to Jackson's memory or created works based on his life.
The “Tigray: Atlas of the humanitarian situation”, that documented this massacre received international media attention, particularly regarding its Annex A, that lists massacres in the Tigray War.
The term "euthanasia" is usually confined to the active variety; the University of Washington website states that "euthanasia generally means that the physician would act directly, for instance by giving a lethal injection, to end the patient's life".
In response to this, several governments have outlawed the distribution of filmed mass shootings, including the government of New Zealand after the Christchurch mosque shootings.
The Assassination of Umberto I of Italy took place on 29 July 1900 on Matteo da Campione Street in Monza.
1830: Mémorial de Sir Hudson Lowe, relatif à la captivité de Napoléon 1831: Le Chiffonnier, 5 vol., with Stanislas Macaire 1831: Le Commissionnaire, mœurs du XIXe Bibliography Joseph Marie Quérard, La France littéraire ou dictionnaire bibliographique des savants, vol.8, 1838, p.
Human rights activists suggest that this targeting is retaliation for the killing of police officers.
Multiple homicides Listed in chronological order Serial killers Listed in chronological order by date of earliest homicide Organized crime Lynchings and race riots Single homicides == References ==
The motivation for this is to distance the debate from suicides commonly performed by those not terminally ill, as they believe that the use of "suicide" is not an accurate representation of the medical practice.
The violence provoked international condemnation of those responsible; US State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns declared that "these Islamic terrorists...
Also as a result swords were replaced as the weapons of choice in duels by the pistol, which tended to result in shorter and less bloody fights.
"They Who Burned Themselves for Peace: Quaker and Buddhist Self-Immolators during the Vietnam War", Buddhist-Christian Studies 20, 127–150 (subscription required) Kovan, Martin (2013).
On 23 October, Trump wrote on Twitter, "I had a very respectful conversation with the widow of La David Johnson, and spoke his name from beginning, without hesitation!" On 25 October, Trump told reporters that he did not "specifically" authorize the mission in Niger.
Miura was increasingly concerned over growing Russian influence over the Korean government, and less than a month after his arrival in Korea, Empress Myeongseong ordered the disbanding of the Japanese-trained Hullyeondae militia.
After they both left Willow Park at the end of 2003, the two remained out of contact with each other until September 2010, when they met again while working at the same North Shore supermarket.
However, Heywood appears to praise Spenser in his Apology for Actors, listing him with other deceased actors whose "deserts yet live in the remembrance of many".
Hazmi's appeals against the death penalty were dismissed by the Court of Appeal and Federal Court on 1 March 2023 and 2 July 2024, respectively, and he is currently on death row awaiting his execution.
References External links Australian True Crime podcast - Meshel Laurie and Emily Webb Facebook group We Remember profile
There are records of substitute king rituals respectively lasting 47 days, 20 days, 7 days, and even as short as 3 days.
The jury was competent to assess whether the failure to discharge that implied duty was gross negligence without hearing any expert evidence; these were not technical issues and they did not need expert help.
Serial killers active in Oregon include Keith Hunter Jesperson, Robert Wayne Danielson, and Sebastian Shaw.
from al-Muqtadir Ramón probably had a daughter; his heir in 1132 was a granddaughter named Marquesa, who donated her inheritance to Santa Maria de Zaragoza.
The holding of a trial would have given the impression of the rule of law to observers including Western nations.
Though Dingane allowed Owen to reside just outside his capital, he considered the Christian faith a fiction of the English, which was of no use to him or his subjects.
In 1972, Romas Kalanta, a 19-year-old Lithuanian student, self-immolated to protest against the Soviet regime in Lithuania, sparking the 1972 unrest in Lithuania; another 13 people self-immolated in that same year.
Priesthood The tribal priests of Kecaikhati are called Deori, who today form a community called the Deori people.
Attackers armed with knives, sabers, and guns killed 42 people - including 17 women and 3 babies - in 3 hours, mutilating and sometimes burning the bodies.
An early Western account of the practice appears in the journals of British explorer Captain James Cook, who purportedly encountered amok firsthand in 1770 during a voyage around the world.
Single homicides – notable homicides involving a single fatality which do not fall within the scope of one of the above categories.
During the witch-hunts in the early modern period, women suspected of witchcraft were repeatedly charged with killing, roasting, and eating babies in Satanic rituals.
The castle doctrine and "stand-your-ground" laws provide legal defenses to persons who have been charged with various use-of-force crimes against persons, such as murder, manslaughter, aggravated assault, and illegal discharge or brandishing of weapons, as well as attempts to commit such crimes.
A display on the early history of the Hainich region based primarily on discoveries at the site is planned for the Hainich National Park near Kammerforst.
French Foreign Minister Louis Barthou was also killed by a stray bullet fired by French police during the scuffle following the attack.
Its 1856 amendment however restricted this to a mere confidential birth, where the midwife was ordered to keep the mother's name in a sealed envelope to allow the grown-up child to request undisclosure of its biological ancestry.
However – similar to findings in a large Danish study – the majority had not had contact with mental health services prior to the murders, and few had received treatment.
The court held that the deceased's death was not caused by injuries that were a foreseeable result of the affray.
Specifically, the law states that killings motivated by a [trans] woman's gender-identity, along with the circumstances of the victim's relationship to the perpetrator, constitute femicide.
On 10 November, the day following the attack, Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews confirmed that "what we saw yesterday was an act of terror." The Guardian has described that he has expressed confidence in the Victoria Police to ensure the safety of Melbourne.
He asked Palestinians to thwart attacks on Israeli positions, to end what Israelis view as incitement in the media, and to proceed to arrest militant gunmen.
"Sacrifice for the State: First Dynasty Royal Funerals and the Rites at Macramallah's Rectangle." 15–37.
On January 13, 1631 he commanded the Mapuche army with Butapichón against Spanish forces led by the very competent Governor Francisco Laso de la Vega who defeated them in the pitched battle of La Albarrada.
Seeing this, the young people began to pull out their identification cards, but the men ordered them to lie down on the ground.
The term sacred man could also have been used because the condemned could only rely on protection of gods.
In the 819th year of Our Lord's incarnation, Ügyek, who, as we said above, being of the family of King Magog became a long time later the most noble prince of Scythia, took to wife in Dentumoger the daughter of Duke Eunedubelian, called Emese, from whom he sired a son, who was named Álmos.
Vogel left the acting profession to report the news and worked for a short time as journalist before he was killed in the Ten-Day War as Yugoslavia was dividing in the aftermath of Marshall Josip Broz Tito's death.
The killing of Xiomara Scott was documented in a report by a panel of independent experts from the Organization of American States, considering that it could constitute a crime against humanity committed in Venezuela along with other killings during the protests.
Peh Wei Jian was the third person to be charged under Section 304C of the Penal Code for allowing the death of a child under the same household, and the only person in 2023 to be indicted for such offences under the Penal Code.
In 2021, males accounted for most homicide victims in all jurisdictions except in Austria, the Czech Republic, Iceland, Latvia, Norway, Slovenia and Switzerland, where females were slightly more likely to be homicide victims.
Kummel, Gerhard and Nina Leonhard"Casualties and Civil-Military Relations: The German Polity between Learning and Indifference." [16].Armed Forces & Society, Jul 2005; vol.
Crime On 18 November 2006, 12 members of a skydiving club that included Van Doren, Somers, and Clottemans, flew over Flanders.
Mass killing is a concept which has been proposed by genocide scholars who wish to define incidents of non-combat killing which are perpetrated by a government or a state.
He was assisted by Duke Dan of Zhou, the Duke of Bi, and the Duke of Shao in carrying out King Wen of Zhou's ambition.
Both groups competed as suppliers of credit, but the older Italian Jewish communities quickly lost out to the new Yiddish-speaking Ashkenazi, and were forced to close down their banking operations in many northern areas in consequence.
Differences from the National Vital Statistics System In 2000, the National Vital Statistics System's homicide estimates exactly matched those of the SHR in 22% of U.S.
This was done as collective punishment for the fatal poisoning of Genghis Khan's father, Yesugei, for which the Mongols blamed the Tatars according to The Secret History of the Mongols.
The figure shows Gallo-Roman influence and may be compared to Diana, to whom deer and swine were also sacrificed.
Different cultures and authors in history have used different definitions for what constitutes the crime of regicide.
During his first years at San Quentin State Prison, Jackson involved himself in revolutionary activity.
Cooke stated: "My father told me it was not what I sang that was important, but that God gave me a voice and musical talent and the true use of His gift was to share it and make people happy." Taking the name "Sam Cooke", he sought a fresh start in pop.
Involuntary euthanasia, typically regarded as a type of murder, occurs when euthanasia is performed on a person who would be able to provide informed consent, but does not, either because they do not want to die, or because they were not asked.
About half of the states that maintain the death penalty have included pedicide to their list of aggravating factors that may make a murder punishable by death.
Mansur Ibrahim defended the suspects who were subsequently acquitted by the court citing non-showing of prosecution lawyers.
American philosopher Janet Stemwedel therefore considers killing baby Hitler to be an unreliable means for maximising happiness.
At the archaeological site of Herxheim, Germany, more than a thousand people were killed and eaten about 7000 years ago, and the evidence indicates that many of them were spit-roasted whole over open fires.
Ayton, Jared's best friend, arrives at the party with a bottle of rum called "Nevis Mountain Dew." When people drink it, the rum seems to act as a truth serum.
When he was congratulated by locals on his fluent German, he responded: "I learned it in Bergen-Belsen".
1975 – Police charged Boston Bruins player Dave Forbes with aggravated assault after a fight with Henry Boucha of the Minnesota North Stars.
Thomas Harold Gamboa (born February 28, 1948) is an American professional baseball coach and manager.
Mark Collins tackled Clack and referee Pat Haggerty ruled the play a safety and gave two points to New York.
The Båstad riots (Swedish: Båstadskravallerna) is the name given to the riots that took place during a Davis Cup tennis match between Sweden and Rhodesia on 3 May 1968 in Båstad, Sweden.
"We had no choice but to start with preventive measures." As the campaign continued, relatives of the athletes killed at Munich were kept informed.
The police commissioner of Bangalore, Shankar Bidari, said that it was a "minor bomb blast" and that investigations were "in full swing" to find out who was responsible.
In 1985, at age 11, she won the Junior Orange Bowl tournament in Miami, Florida, which caught the attention of tennis coach Nick Bollettieri.
Later, Igli Tare, former Albanian captain and current Lazio sports director, declared that he was with Rama, and that the latter merely carried a camera.
In New York City, although the celebrations marking the Rangers' first championship in 54 years were peaceful and there were no reports of violence or arrests, they were marred by the Vancouver riots.
The Connollystraße is a street in the Olympic Village and student quarter of the Olympic Park Munich.
He lived in Jerusalem until the 1967 Six-Day War, when he was displaced after Israel captured the eastern portion of the city.
The two deceased were Central Intelligence Organisation security personnel; Colour Sergeant Stanley Mugunzva of the Presidential Guard, who was assigned to Vice-President Chiwenga, and Nelson Dube, an aide to Vice-President Mohadi.
Outcome On 13 July, Louth's county executive committee issued a statement condemning what it described as "the unsavoury incidents after the match".
Besides attending Independiente matches, since 1982, the core members of the group attend the national team's World Cups.
Video A graphic video later surfaced online shortly following the incident that shows medical personnel reassembling Otávio's body.
TV replays immediately demonstrated that the referee was incorrect when he awarded the goal to Meath.
Seneca relates that a German prisoner, rather than participate, killed himself by forcing a sponge used in the lavatory down his throat.
The Capitol Police immediately engaged Hodgkinson and kept him pinned down, preventing him from continuing to fire on the unarmed baseball players.
Ultang said years later that they were very lucky that the incident took place when it did; they had only planned to stay through the first quarter so they could have enough time to develop the pictures before the newspaper's publication deadline.
2012 Summer Olympics On 9 July 2012, Suárez was selected for the Uruguay Olympic football team alongside Liverpool teammate Sebastián Coates to compete in the 2012 Olympic Games.
Relations between the Arabs who settled in Qamishli during the Arab Belt programme and Kurdish inhabitants had been tense for decades.
However, in the North American professional ice hockey league, the NHL, if a major penalty is assessed and the boarded player sustains a head or facial injury, the offending player receives an automatic game misconduct.
Details The "home" team (for administrative purposes) was determined by an additional draw held after the quarter-final and semi-final draws.
Bechler went to work in the security service of Lufthansa, including half a year in Delhi, then half a year in Lima.
Aside from his native Bosnian, he speaks English, Spanish, French, German and Russian to varying degrees of fluency.
Los Angeles Sparks forward Candace Parker ended up with the ball after a hard contested rebound, before having the ball stripped away by Ford and being fouled.
Local officials stayed outside the intensive care units where injured victims were taken after the attack and prevented journalists from speaking with family members.
Preparation for the attack Hamid told his mother that he was going back to Germany to study for approximately two and a half months.
Organized horse fighting is a blood sport between two stallions which is organized for the purposes of betting or entertainment.
Leeds' Premier League match against Arsenal the Sunday before the second leg was marked by Arsenal players laying flowers at all four corners of Elland Road and a minute's silence being held before the match started in respect for the death of the two Leeds fans.
Hollande was evacuated from the stadium at half-time, while the German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, remained at the stadium.
After both teams left the pitch a second Danish fan took the ball from the penalty spot and ran across the stadium before scoring in Sweden's empty net.
Before kick-off, away supporters were held at Wigan Athletic's DW Stadium, to prevent congregation within Manchester city centre.
Match Events Before the game started, supporters of both teams chanted against the APL's decision to award A-League Grand Final hosting rights to Sydney for the next three years, as well as displaying banners criticising the decision in the 20th minute.
Robert Claus (2020): "Kampfsport für weiße Europäer — Der 'Kampf der Nibelungen und sein Netzwerk'".
Despite it being Murdoch's wicket that started the riot, the English public were more sympathetic towards him than Gregory, and although the Australians played against weak opposition, including many XVIIIs, they attracted large crowds, leading the counties to regret their decision to snub them.
The draw raised security concerns, in particular regarding the potential for possible reprisals, and the prospect of a large number of ticketless fans arriving in Manchester.
National Hockey League (NHL) The NHL defines a cross check in their Rule 59 as "The action of using the shaft of the stick between the two hands to forcefully check an opponent".
You don't have to worry about that." One day after his release from the Pirates, he was acquired by the Tampa Bay Devil Rays.
Some rugby supporters echoed the separation of politics and sport, while other rugby supporters argued that if the tour were cancelled, there would be no reporting of the widespread criticism of apartheid in New Zealand in the controlled South African media.
The two-point conversion attempt failed leaving the score 54–48 Hawaii, and giving Houston a chance to win.
Most scholars believe that the timeline provided is derived from two diverging traditions, including one by John Malalas and one by Procopius.
He shifted his story, claiming that while he had provided some free invitations, the Ultras had "thugged" their way in and orchestrated the violence to sabotage the state.
Death On 23 August 2014, Bodjongo was struck on the head by a projectile thrown by an unknown person while the teams were leaving the field at the end of a home game between JSK and USM Alger.
Clarification on match context While some early reports referred to Otávio da Silva as a "referee" in an "amateur football match", later accounts and eyewitness testimonies suggest the game was informal and unsanctioned.
Williams was quoted as saying he and his lawyers "just wanted to prove what was right and wrong about football".
Melbourne defeated Manly 34–8 to win the 2007 title, whilst Manly reversed the result and won by a record 40–0 scoreline in 2008.
At 10:30, the performance of Wicked ended, and patrons were asked to stay inside the theatre to avoid the riot.
222–235) may have intended a more even redistribution of munera throughout the year; but this would have broken with what had become the traditional positioning of the major gladiator games, at the year's ending.
Northeast Conference NEC commissioner Noreen Morris said she was "disgusted" by the events and that the conference would launch an investigation into the brawl.
Essendon entered the match having won nine of the previous ten meetings between the two clubs, by an average margin of 39 points.
After her husband returned, the woman still chose to stay with her new lover, and the two were married.
Vigenère adds two more types of bestiarii: the first were those who made a trade of it, and fought for money.
The Islamic State claimed responsibility for attack, claiming those targeted were members of the Popular Mobilization Forces.
The game ended with a record 13 ejections and also 5 arrests, with a few spectators getting involved in the ruckus.
Today in some countries, there are efforts to bring the fighting into mainstream by regulating the rules, ensure the fairness and the welfare of the fighting rams.
1991 On June 12, 1991, the Bulls defeated the Los Angeles Lakers four games to one in the 1991 NBA Finals.
When the students had learned the President was not available, they then relocated to Grand River Ave, where a small riot ensued.
Due to tensions of the ongoing Troubles, England fans became extremely unruly, as well as violent, and ended up forcing the match to be abandoned.
In ice hockey, the boarding call is often a major penalty due to the likelihood of injury sustained by the player who was boarded, and officials have the discretion to call a game misconduct or a match penalty (if they feel the offense was a deliberate attempt to injure) on the offending player.
Career statistics Regular season and playoffs References External links Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
Ware and his Hurricane Forward tactical headquarters at Camp Lê Văn Duyệt which assumed tactical control of all U.S.
By the time they finished with a 12–4 record and entered the playoffs, they had earned the number one seed, and not allowed any touchdowns in the previous 10 quarters.
LSU fans threw debris on the field, which was criticized live on air by the ABC (ESPN) broadcast crew.
In some cultures it has been developed into a "game" or a sport, or even held as "national pastime" which sometimes involves betting.
Songs by such artists as State of Shock, Seemless, Art of Dying and Bruce Kulick were used as entrance themes.
Every man on the pitch soon found himself in the middle of the melee, apart from Meath's Brendan Reilly, Mayo goalkeeper John Madden and his full-back Kevin Cahill.
BYU Cougars In April 2014, organizers announced that they had reached a deal with BYU to play in the inaugural Miami Beach Bowl in 2014.
After his career, he was listed by ESPN as the fifth dirtiest player in professional team sports history.
A 'charge' is generally the result of attempting to hit an opposing player beyond what is called for with a typical hockey body check.
Even though this game contributed to sports venues stopping the use of plastic bottles, it is often overshadowed by the Cleveland Browns Bottlegate, along with the 2004 Pacers-Pistons Brawl.
References External links https://web.archive.org/web/20041206195310/http://www.vikingupdate.com/history/historyprofiles/hailmarydall.html https://www.nytimes.com/1988/10/07/sports/sports-people-erring-official-quits.html
Early in the game, Cleveland's Leron Lee hit a line drive into the stomach of Rangers pitcher Ferguson Jenkins, after which Jenkins dropped to the ground.
Treating others with respect and care is who we are, and we did not do that as a community as well as we should have last night.
The riots did not spread to the stadium, although there was an attempt to pull down the fences by fans heading towards the Arsenal area of the stadium before police stopped them.
The turnover—after an unsportsmanlike conduct call for excessive celebration—gave the Patriots the ball on their own 1-yard line with 20 seconds remaining in the game.
At the end of season, Seles had won 10 out of the 16 tournaments she entered (reaching the final of every tournament that she entered that year).
Background Tensions were already high during the first leg: the Turkey national team was met with hostility in Switzerland, and their national anthem was booed before the game began.
Background Motorcycle racing has been a national attraction that were held every Easter in Bathurst since 1931.
When such play occurs, the enforcer is expected to respond aggressively, by fighting or checking the offender.
During a lull in the exchange of bullets between the terrorists and German police, Bechler ran towards the airbase control tower but as he did so was shot at from the other helicopter.
The riot followed Game 7 of the 1994 Stanley Cup Finals in which the Vancouver Canucks lost to the New York Rangers.
The memorial is dedicated to his memory and to the memory of the ten other athletes who were killed.
Blažević was given the kepi by a colleague of the Daniel Nivel, at the match between Romania and Croatia, a day after the attack.
In photographs taken after the event, he can be seen lying facedown on the tarmac in a pool of blood.
According to Simon Reeve, Afif enjoyed the time he spent in Europe, but joined Fatah in 1966, possibly while residing in Germany.
Though the player suspensions has no bearing in the Asian Games since the sanctions will be served in the next round of the FIBA Basketball World Cup qualifiers, the SBP decided not to include any of players suspended due to the brawl in the Philippines' Asian Games roster.
These sub-groups generally carry the names of their neighborhoods or cities of origin, or the nicknames of their bosses.
He was among several Israeli team members that avoided being captured by terrorists in the Munich massacre.
​Technical Decisions: If the fight is stopped due to an accidental rabbit punch after a certain number of rounds, it may go to the scorecards.
In another fight, Vladimir Konstantinov levelled a head-butt that broke Greg Hawgood's nose; Brendan Shanahan later described it as "the greatest head-butt I've ever seen".
Ram fighting is a blood sport between two rams (large-horned male sheep), held in a ring or open field.
A tense match against Racing de Córdoba resulted in violent clashes between Racing supporters and the police.
The city's mayor César Prieto Gallardo said that the shooting was part of a larger crime wave and urged president Claudia Sheinbaum to intervene against the violence.
GLHF also hosted a vigil in front of the restaurant doors, which was attended by hundreds of people.
A match penalty is assessed for a cross-check if the referee feels that the offender aimed to deliberately hurt or injure the opponent.
Baseball In baseball, a beanball is a pitch, similar to a brushback pitch but actually intended to hit the batter as it is thrown at the head.
Drawn game Details Replay Details Post-match Inaccurate stories spread afterwards that McEnaney had received hate mail at his home, but, McEnaney later said, the only letter he received (from a Meath supporter) praised McEnaney for how he had handled the brawl.
Teams that are losing by a considerable margin often start these fights near the end of the game when they have nothing to lose.
The trial received much publicity as it was highly unusual for an athlete to face criminal charges for assault during a game.
Though it was never an organized sport, participants would sometimes schedule their fights (as one could schedule a duel), and victors were treated as local heroes.
Some time after their arrival a Volkswagen packed with plastic explosives was parked along Rue Verdun within view of the rented apartment.
On that same day, Bobinski used Mack's radio show to again apologize and take questions from fans concerning the incident.
While historical fiction depicts real-life sports such as gladiatorial games and jousting, speculative fiction, especially dystopic science fiction, suggests variants of blood sports in a contemporary or future society.
Tim Couch took the snap and passed short to Quincy Morgan, who caught the ball for a 3-yard gain and a first down.
At the start of the 2005 season, Parcells accepted he made a misjudgment by moving Gurode to guard and switched him back to center, with the Cowboys also signing Marco Rivera to take his place at guard.
See also List of national memorials of the United States References External links Official NPS website: David Berger National Memorial David Mark Berger website
The black steel sculpture, a design of broken Olympic rings, is meant to symbolize the interruption of the Munich games by the tragic events, and the eleven segments on which the rings rest represent each athlete whose life was taken.
Post-conflict events In the season following the conflicts, Roma were once again set to play Manchester United.
The event traditionally begins when a certain kind of sea worm swims to shore, signifying the end of the wet season and the beginning of crop-planting.
Matchday The match was abandoned following the events that broke out after the goal scored by Kayserispor's Oktay Aktan in the 20th minute.
This led to a further 100 people being arrested, including over 30 juveniles who were charged with curfew violations.
Tony Deogan (25 November 1975 – 2 August 2002) was a Swedish man killed in Stockholm before a football match, when he suffered a brutal attack at the hands of supporters of another team.
During his time with Detroit, he earned praise from head coach Mike Babcock and teammates for adapting his playing style to be more defensively responsible.
In 2012, Alon released a book entitled Munich Memoir, co-authored by Carla Stockton, recounting his experiences at the 1972 Munich Olympics, and the impact on his life.
I can't do anything." He also noted that he had not been asked to endorse anything, not even a dog food commercial (he also noted himself as someone would be so happy to do one that he would "eat the dog food").
Vancouver president and general manager Brian Burke, the league's former chief disciplinarian, described the play as "a marginal player going after a superstar with a headhunting hit".
After acquiring Artest in late January 2006, the team immediately went on a 14–5 run, the team's best run of the season.
He was among six Israeli team members who avoided being captured by terrorists in the Munich massacre.
Despite the life ban, Rumaropen still played for Persiwa Wamena on Premier League after getting relegated from Super League that year.
A notice in the Birmingham Gazette described the pamphlet as written "in the kindest spirit" and "worth a careful reading", while remarking that such works rarely reach those "who need them most".
No armoured vehicles were at the scene at Fürstenfeldbruck airbase and were only called in after the gunfight was well underway.
According to Russian officials, fourteen missiles were shot down but one hit and "heavily damaged" a shopping center in Belgorod city.
Specifically: 'The use of animals in shows, fights, popular festivals and other activities that imply cruelty or mistreatment, that can cause death, suffering or make them the object of unnatural and unworthy treatments' is prohibited (Article 30).
Hardcore wrestling was first acknowledged as a major wrestling style in Japan with promotions such as Frontier Martial-Arts Wrestling and W*ING.
Amin al-Hindi (9 January 1941 – 17 August 2010) was a Palestinian politician who served as the intelligence chief of the Palestinian Authority.
The Liga MX will also not disaffiliate Querétaro from the league to avoid any interference with the rest of the 2022 Clausura season.
The Bulldogs entered the bowl with an overall record of 3–7; they were ranked at number 16 in the AP Poll early in the season after defeating the defending national champions, LSU.
Almost every building in Aggieville had its windows smashed, people climbed to the tops of several buildings, and a 1968 Volkswagen Beetle was rolled over and torched.
The foundation breed of the fighting dog was, in its outward appearance, a large, low, heavy breed with a powerful build, strongly developed head, and tremendously threatening voice.
To the perpetrator The attacker stated in court that he was intoxicated by the consumption of alcohol, to a degree that he could not recall attacking the referee.
After winning his first NBA championship in 2010, Artest apologized to Jackson and other Pacers for being "so young and egotistical", stating "sometimes I feel like a coward when I see those guys.
2013 season Burfict entered training camp slated as the team's starting weakside linebacker under defensive coordinator Mike Zimmer.
Chris Burrows, chair of the Manchester Police Federation, claimed the screen was deliberately switched off.
ECW's popularity led to the major American promotions of the 1990s, World Championship Wrestling and World Wrestling Federation, creating divisions devoted exclusively to "hardcore" wrestling (which mostly amounted to no-disqualification weapons matches).
The pressure was on the GAA authorities to act fast and deal with the controversy on the pitch, but it took weeks for the organisation to sort out all the disciplinary matters arising from the final.
This has been aided, in no small part, by dramatic increases in disciplinary processes and technology allowing for a high level of scrutiny of any event which occurs.
After serving his sentence, he asked Ajax permission to apply for a yearly subscription, which was granted.
With a 58–24 record, the Timberwolves qualified for the 2004 playoffs as the top seed in the Western Conference.
Hey, over the years, you learn to forget things." When Roseboro died, Marichal served as an honorary pallbearer at his funeral.
This call caused several Saints fans inside of the Superdome to become angry and start throwing beer bottles, cups, ice, and paper onto the field, which led to a 30-minute stoppage.
Earlier in the game, Barney Rock had scored an 11th-minute goal, but all was overshadowed by what followed.
On January 31, 2007, Sprewell's long-term companion sued him for $200 million for ending their relationship agreement.
On 21 and 28 March 1969, the Czechoslovakia national ice hockey team beat the Soviet team in the 1969 World Ice Hockey Championships in Stockholm.
Artest immediately reacted to this by jumping off the table, charging into the stands, and grabbing another spectator, Michael Ryan, whom he mistakenly believed was responsible.
New York Mets On December 6, 2011, Francisco agreed to a two-year contract worth $12 million with the New York Mets.
There was condemnation from some of the British and Jewish press, as well as from some members of the Labour Party and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
However, the original and early precursor was the notable trend of Liverpool youths starting to dress differently from other football fans at the time in Peter Storm jackets, straight-leg jeans and Adidas trainers.
In 2008 an English club player was banned for eighty weeks following a biting incident that left a player with "a partial amputation of the right index finger".
Documents uncovered in 2012 show that logistical help and support were supplied by two German neo-Nazis, Wolfgang Abramowski and Willi Pohl.
The whole football world strongly condemned the riot, showing full support for Pancalli's decision to stop all football activities in Italy, and suggested a solution akin to the UK's Football Spectators Act 1989, the goal of which was to wipe out football hooliganism.
He has released solo albums featuring guitar and tape manipulation, and has contributed articles to British music magazine The Wire.
Two days later, after an amateur football match at Lykovrysi between the home team and Pangrati, 20 persons wearing hoods, attacked with crowbars and clubs 3 players of the away team, among them Nikos Stylianesis, who was one of those charged but later released for Filopoulos murder.
Dinamo Zagreb also "condemned the incident and expressed their condolences to the family of a fan who lost his life".
Leagues that operate under IIHF rules may impose further disciplinary action; for example, the standard procedure in Liiga is to give 2-game suspensions to players who start fighting after agreeing upon it in advance as opposed to a natural escalation.
The Delije proceeded to attack them with torn-off seats after reportedly chanting Serbian nationalist slogans like, "Zagreb is Serbian" and, "We'll kill Tuđman".
In some places, particularly Prague, the celebrations turned to protests against the Soviet military who continued to occupy the country after the Warsaw Pact invasion the previous August.
Future meetings The next meeting between the two sides would not take place until Wednesday 29 May 2013, a friendly at Wembley Stadium, and the next meeting in the Republic of Ireland was on Sunday 7 June 2015 at Dublin's Aviva Stadium.
Rule 42 of the NHL rulebook dictates that: A minor or major penalty shall be imposed on a player who skates, jumps into or charges an opponent in any manner.
Group stage Group A Group B Group C Group D Knockout stage See also Enforcer (hockey) Fighting in ice hockey == References ==
The intended target of the strike may have been a nearby base of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).
Ramifications One day after the murder, on 8 August, Greek journalist Giorgos Mazias issued a warning to Croatian tourists in Greece.
During the season, Ciccarelli played in the 1982 NHL All-Star Game, hosted by the Washington Capitals, with the Campbell Conference, where he assisted on a goal by Wayne Gretzky in a 4–2 loss to the Wales Conference.
Thomas was not penalized after the brawl, as an NBA investigation ruled that they did not have "adequate evidence upon which to make a determination", but several writers criticized the NBA for not including Thomas in the suspensions.
Australia Captain Greg Davis 31 July 1971 – Brisbane Exhibition Ground, Brisbane, South Africa 14–6 Australia First try: Piet Visagie 7 August 1971 – Sydney Cricket Ground, Sydney.
After moving to Ukraine, he founded the Russian Volunteer Corps (RVC) in 2022 and has been the group's leader, fighting on the side of Ukraine in the Russo-Ukrainian war.
It was written by Jelle Leeksma, directed by Bobby Boermans and stars Loek Peters, Ilse Heus and Joost Koning.
Perpetrator According to a police statement, the suspect was a 62-year-old divorced man named Fan Weiqiu (樊维秋).
On 11 August, Croatian actor Rene Bitorajac published on Instagram that Greek news wrongly portrayed him as a football hooligan by showing scenes from Croatian feature film Metastases in their news.
In the playoffs, Ciccarelli had a four-goal game on April 25, 1992, as Washington defeated the Pittsburgh Penguins 7–2.
The brawl Tommy Dowd got a goal and Brendan Reilly got the winning point but none of this matters: all is forgotten now apart from the infamous brawl which broke out over by the Cusack Stand in the shadow of Hill 16.
See also Cockfighting Dog fighting Betta fighting References External links The brutal world of sheep fighting: the illegal sport beloved by Algeria’s 'lost generation' — The Guardian
The Danish newspaper Ekstra Bladet has identified him by the initial "R", while other news media decided not to publish his name citing "the serious threat" against him.
The hijacking Note: For consistency reasons, all times have been converted to Central European Time.
He is a former baseball player and former legislative assistant for Congressmen Tim Walberg and Dave Camp, both Republicans from Michigan.
This took place the day after a notable brawl at an NBA game in Detroit, the "Malice at the Palace".
Puerto Rico's Cockfighting Commission regulates 87 clubs, but many non-government sanctioned "underground" cockfighting operations exist.
On 2 October 2010, Gavin Quinnell suffered an eye injury during a game between Llanelli and Cross Keys, from which he lost the sight in his left eye.
After the bomb blast police secured the area following which the Twenty20 cricket match between the home team Royal Challengers Bangalore and Mumbai Indians, started an hour late at (1700 IST).
After they had captured the athletes in apartment number one and three, they led them under guard down the stairs to the ground floor of the building.
See also Timeline of the Russian invasion of Ukraine (1 December 2023 - present) 30 December 2023 Belgorod shelling == References ==
When asked directly if he had killed any of the Israelis, Adnan Al-Gashey simply replied, "It's not important for me to say if I killed Israeli (sic) or not." Later life It is believed that Al-Gashey has spent the time since his release in hiding in North Africa.
Following a handball by Alpay Özalan, Alexander Frei converted a penalty, putting Switzerland ahead.
Week 17: at Baltimore Ravens The Steelers ended their season on the road for Round 2 against the Ravens.
The 2000 UEFA Cup semi-final violence in Istanbul, Turkey, between fans of English football team Leeds United and Turkish team Galatasaray on 5 April 2000, the day before the first match of their UEFA Cup semi-final, led to two Leeds fans being stabbed to death by Galatasaray fans.
When he entered high school he played football merely so he could be around a close friend, and have someone to walk home with at night as he was terrified of walking home alone.
A right-handed wicket-keeper/batsman, Anderson represented the Bermudian national side between 2010 and 2013, most notably at the 2011 World Cricket League Division Two tournament and the 2012 World Twenty20 Qualifier.
In 1844, a decree dictated by the Captain General of the island, Leopoldo O'Donnell, forbade non-white people to attend these shows.
In the late 1990s, La Guardia Imperial, along with regular Racing fans (not just hooligans), united to prevent the judicial auction of the club’s headquarters in the Villa del Parque neighborhood of Buenos Aires.
Historically the Scouts Club had been known as Muslim Scouts Club as all players and most of its fans were Muslims.
The Rowbottom was incited by students from New York opening their windows in the Quad, and shouting Network's signature line, "I'm mad as hell and I'm not taking it anymore".
However, wickets tumbled through the afternoon, none of the incoming batsmen passed single figures, and New South Wales were all out for 177, a deficit of 90 runs.
Only the replay official could initiate a review; unlike today's NFL, coaches were not allowed to challenge plays (the collegiate system also allows challenges, although the procedure is different).
The Battle of Brookvale was the unofficial name given to the Round 25, 2011 National Rugby League (NRL) match between the Manly Warringah Sea Eagles and Melbourne Storm, played at Brookvale Oval on 26 August 2011.
Seles then won the Virginia Slims of Los Angeles title against Martina Navratilova and then defeated Navratilova again in winning the Oakland California tournament, in straight sets.
The game is also memorable for fighting that occurred between teams at the completion of the game, as players got into shouting matches and punches were thrown.
Amy Hayes served as the interviewer and announcer for pre-match introductions, while Ray Walker announced winners and decisions, and Geoff Gregoire was the lead referee.
On 2 October 2010, Gavin Quinnell of the Welsh regional team Scarlets suffered an eye injury 30 minutes into a game between Scarlets feeder club Llanelli and Cross Keys.
On 14 August, Dinamo Zagreb manager, Igor Bišćan, expressed his condolences to the family of deceased fan.
Its principles were established by Dutch jurist Hugo Grotius, who is considered to be a founder of international law, in his book De jure belli ac pacis libri tres ("On the Law of War and Peace: Three Books"), published in 1625.
These epistles are read out aloud by the preacher, setting out what ought or ought not to be believed, as well as those deeds that ought or ought not to be done.
In the 1950s, Sullivan's theory that schizophrenia is related to interpersonal relationships was widely accepted in the United States.
During a prisoner exchange, her own daughter could not be found, but the Circassians offered to return her if Avdotya gave up Fekla.
India: Digital Library of India; Internet Archive.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: date and year (link) == References ==
The most senior public servant in the Treasury is the department secretary, currently Jenny Wilkinson who was appointed in June 2025.
The nations are involved in a war or crisis with another nation or nations and this precipitates another crisis, e.g., the Lusitania incident in 1915.
In 1910, the federal government passed the Australian Notes Act 1910 which gave control over the issue of Australian bank notes to The Treasury and prohibited the circulation of state notes and withdrew their status as legal tender.
While pitting against each other, the two armies are always in different locations and the locations would be dynamically changed, that the opportunity for battle are just occurs at the moment of situation changing.
Balakrishnan Rajagopal, United Nations Special Rapporteur on adequate housing, accused Israel of committing domicide in the Gaza Strip during the Gaza war.
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld would be criminally liable for the torturing of the prisoner Mohammed al-Qahtani.
As a result, the issuance of amān was a fundamental means of facilitating trade and diplomacy between Muslim and non-Muslim states during the early Middle Ages.
See also Assassin's Mace Chinese information operations and information warfare United Front Work Department Thirty-Six Stratagems Transnational lawfare by China References External links Full text of Unrestricted Warfare Full PDF of Unrestricted Warfare
References, tables of cases and legal instruments are included making this an excellent reference for further research." Abraham David Sofaer reviewed the book for the Texas Law Review.
In 1983, the Defence Act was amended to provide for the first time a six-year substitute service - essentially community service - outside the armed forces for conscientious objectors.
The Egyptian government under Anwar Sadat acted in contrast to that rule when it decided to conclude a separate peace treaty in 1979, and was followed by Jordan with the Israel–Jordan peace treaty in 1994.
In turn, Georgia abolished South Ossetian autonomous status, which existed since the early Soviet years.
Examples Notable historical examples of domicide include: the American Bombing of Tokyo, which was the most destructive and deadly non-nuclear bombing in human history, the bombing of Warsaw, Dresden and Königsberg, and the destruction perpetrated by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia.
What is important is that this equipment can share common facilities and communicate with other equipment.
Often, resistance movements will be active in open cities, straining the temperate conduct of the occupying forces.
Hence, the warfare in information age is formulated around flows; flows of forces, firepower, information and organizational interaction have become the dominant advantage of warfare in information age.
Massive retaliation is a military doctrine and nuclear strategy that commits a state to retaliate to an attack in much greater force, especially with the use of nuclear weapons.
This list of wars by death toll includes some deaths directly or indirectly caused by the deadliest wars in history.
It was renamed the "Seizing Chiang Pavilion" (捉蒋亭; Zhuō Jiǎng Tíng) after 1949, and again renamed to the "Bingjian Pavilion" in the 1980s.
Japanese Pacific attacks In Japan, while the majority of the population supported the increased militarism and governmental policies, a minority did exist.
Screenshots of alleged Russian users (from a large Telegram group of people crossing the Russo-Georgian border) complaining they were not allowed entry into Georgia because of Z signs on their cars went viral on the Georgian and Ukrainian internet.
In this regard, on 25 May 2022, Amnesty International encouraged the Cabinet of Germany to expand the programme of humanitarian admission (German: humanitäre Aufnahmeprogramme) on Russians persecuted by Putin's regime.
The most cited event attributed to the use of the term was the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo, Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1914, the immediate trigger of World War I.
It may have broken the National Liberation Front infrastructure in Algiers, but it also killed off French legitimacy as far as "hearts and minds" went.
Eventually, many villagers and their sons and daughters joined the Red Army, providing the Red Army with sufficient manpower to combat the Japanese and Kuomintang.
Australia and New Zealand The British colonies of Australia and New Zealand suffered a series of 'war scares' during the 19th century from perceived threats from France and Russia.
The introduction of AEW&C systems, SOSUS and satellite-fed data risked overwhelming the OTC, and so forces were forced to shift towards granting individual commanders more autonomy - something that improved communications made possible.
Regardless of the use of combined, joined or interoperability terms, the concept ensures that different military organisations maintain the ability to conduct combat and non-combat military operations regardless of the national and service (ground, naval and air forces) differences.
Foreign-imposed regime change Commonly referred to as regime change wars, foreign-imposed regime change is the deposing of a regime by a foreign state, which can be achieved through covert means or by direct military action.
Pirouz Mojtahedzadeh of CASMII UK made a presentation regarding Iran's energy needs and its nuclear energy program at a conference at the European Parliament organised by the European Greens–European Free Alliance.
However, the high moral tone of its pronouncements failed to achieve support from the working class, and provoked stronger antagonism than the more rational approach of the South African Conciliation Committee.
Enrichment processes generate uranium with a higher-than-natural concentration of lower-mass-number uranium isotopes (in particular 235U, which is the uranium isotope supporting the fission chain reaction) with the bulk of the feed ending up as depleted uranium.
Unconditional surrender is a surrender without conditions, except for those provided by international law.
The railgun is mounted in a turret aboard the experimental ship JS Asuka, and is designed to be used against surface targets as well as hypersonic missiles.
Finn is initially mesmerized by the city's glitz and glamour until Rose informs him that most of the city's inhabitants are war profiteers, having made their fortunes selling weapons and ships to the First Order and the Resistance.
This process of a constant flow of technological innovation where new technologies replace old ones is called creative destruction, because as this process replaces old technologies with new, it will also destroy existing structures and the jobs that go with them.
In the Doctor Who series, the Sontarans and the Rutans have been in a perpetual state of war for over 50,000 years.
The Rule of Law in Armed Conflicts Project (RULAC Project) is an initiative of the Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights to support the application and implementation of the international law of armed conflict.
As Stigall points out, innate in 'just' war (jus ad bellum) is the expectation that one state may be conducting military activity against, and within the borders, of another state; the laws of armed conflict "[presuppose] extraterritoriality".
Kennedy capitalized on this situation by emphasizing the bomber gap and the missile gap, areas in which the Soviets were (inaccurately) perceived as leading the United States, while heated Soviet rhetoric added to political pressure.
Following that, Japan created a puppet state in Korea with the excuse of suppressing the Donghak Peasant Revolution.
Melzer describes an abrupt change where military members were ordered to "shoot to kill", replacing prior orders to incapacitate.
List of selected field manuals FM 1, The Army[A] – "establishes the fundamental principles for employing landpower." Together, it and FM 3–0 are considered by the U.S.
The DU content in various ammunition is 180 grams (6.3 oz) in 20 mm, 200 grams (7.1 oz) in 25 mm, 280 grams (9.9 oz) in 30 mm, 3.5 kilograms (7.7 lb) in 105 mm, and 4.5 kilograms (9.9 lb) in 120 mm penetrators.
They have also been the exclusive (albeit stop-motion) actors in a music video featuring an instrumental track by the band Pink Martini, as well as for use in experimental marine ecology examining habitat selection in the estuarine shrimp, Palaemon macrodactylus.
The "state" consisted of fortresses (such as the Alamut Castle) built on strategic mountaintops and highlands with difficult access, surrounded by hostile lands.
Events listed include those in which there were simple diplomatic breaking of relations that did not involve hostilities, as well as those involving overt declarations or acts of aggression.
The Chinese Red Army however, under the Three Points of Discipline and Eight Points of Attention requested permission to take supplies and to board at houses instead, and any confiscation of peasant property were exceptions and violators were promptly punished.
War should be understood as an actual, intentional and widespread armed conflict between political communities, and therefore is defined as a form of political violence or intervention.
The book was then published in English by a previously unknown Panamanian publisher, with the subtitle "China's Master Plan to Destroy America" and a picture of the burning World Trade Center on the cover.
He specifically notes the incidents during the game between the visiting side and the Arsenal team where two of the players came into blows on the pitch, and a later game with Rangers that was a "free for all" before the visiting team ended the tour refusing to play an all-England team.
References External links History of US Government Involvement in Insurance at the United States Department of Veterans Affairs
Nuclear weapons – use radioactive materials to create nuclear fission or nuclear fusion detonations Rockets – self-propelled projectiles.
Background After World War II, during the beginning of the Cold War, the Soviet Union grew in strength while Western Europe struggled to rebuild its economy and military.
Many consider it a form of terrorism in the sense of deliberately attacking noncombatants in the hope of changing their mindset.
As the armies advanced, both these zones and the areas into which they were divided would shift forward to new geographic areas of control.
Many of these International Relation theories used by scholars, such as liberalism and realism, focus on states as the main actors in the international system.
Under the terms of War Damage Corporation's charter an authorized capital stock of US$100,000,000 was provided, all of which was subscribed for by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
with the 'effective operational control' standard endorsed by the UN's International Law Commission." Ryngaert declares each of the two results to be "an awkward hybrid theory".
Alexander, "Unclasping the Eagle's Talons: Mark Twain, American Freethought, and the Responses to Imperialism." The Journal of the Gilded Age and Progressive Era 17, no.
Family allowances were enshrined in the Family Code of July 1939 and, with the exception of the stay-at-home allowance, are still in force.
Later, the computers identified four additional missiles in the air, all directed towards the Soviet Union.
Geneva Convention (IV) Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War The four Geneva Conventions of 1949 contain a set of grave breaches that states must prosecute.
Once a city has declared itself open, the opposing military will be expected under international law to peacefully occupy the city rather than destroy it.
Soon after Chiang was captured, Zhang sent telegrams to the Northeastern Army's 51st Army in Lanzhou and to the commander of some artillery brigades he had stationed in Luoyang.
More broadly, there is now a strong presumption against the legality of using, or threatening, military force against another country.
In Vietnam The tunnels of Củ Chi are an immense network of connecting tunnels located in the Củ Chi District of Ho Chi Minh City (Saigon), Vietnam, and are part of a much larger network of tunnels that underlie much of the country.
This campaign initiated the third phase of the Hundred Years' War (1415–1453) termed the Lancastrian War.
Nuclear weapons at this time were not accurate enough to hit a naval base without destroying the city adjacent to it, so the aim of using them was to destroy the enemy's industrial capacity to cripple their war economy.
Bolivia called on Peru to activate their secret mutual defense pact, and Chile demanded for Peru to declare its neutrality immediately.
In addition to personal experience, war widowhood has profound socio-demographic and economic effects on the society.
What Is It Good For?: The Role of Conflict and the Progress of Civilisation from Primates to Robots.
Die Nationalsozialisten 1934 in Österreich, Verlag Styria, Graz-Vienna-Cologne 1976, ISBN 3-222-10884-6 (in German) Kindermann, Gottfried-Karl: Hitlers Niederlage in Österreich.
The third, and likely most effective kind of tank destroyer was the unturreted, casemate-style tank destroyer, known by the Jagdpanzer term in German service, or Samokhodnaya Ustanovka in Soviet service for their own designs.
Alternatively, it has been argued that the Peace of Westphalia did not solidify the power of the nation state, but that the Thirty Years' War itself ushered in an era of large-scale combat that was simply too costly for smaller mercenary groups to carry out on their own.
Nonetheless, States must take environmental considerations into account when assessing what is necessary and proportionate in the pursuit of legitimate military objectives.
On July 2, 1798, the bill was amended and engrossed and the next day was read the third time, passed and sent to the Senate for concurrence.
To the surprise of medical professionals at the time, there was no outbreak of typhus in the trenches of the Western Front, despite the cold and harsh conditions being perfect for the reproduction of body lice that transmit the disease.
Legacy The Save our Sons movement successfully contributed to a change of public opinion against the Vietnam war leading to the eventual election of the anti war Whitlam government and the end of the war.
The scale of a naval offensive need not be a massive ocean fleet operation, but may be conducted with relatively few and light forces on lakes.
Following the end of the Allied occupation, West Germany assumed a certain degree of responsibility for the atrocities committed by Nazi Germany and agreed to make major reparation payments to its victims.
Synopsis The book begins with a lengthy history of war crimes beginning with the "knightly chivalry" of the medieval period.
Artillery Historically, artillery (from French artillerie) refers to any engine used for the discharge of projectiles during the war.
On the contrary, their plan to resist the Japanese centered on expanding the Red Army to 1 million men and dramatically increasing the land area covered by the Chinese Soviet Republic.
Realism – its core proposition is a skepticism as to whether moral concepts such as justice can be applied to the conduct of international affairs.
Much of Vernichtungsgedanke can be seen in Carl von Clausewitz's classic treatise Vom Kriege ("On War").
Even when marginalized people do find a platform, their narratives are often constrained by the dominant culture's frameworks, which reshapes their truths into something more palatable or less challenging to the existing hierarchy.
State Department adviser Marshall Shulman stated that "false alerts of this kind are not a rare occurrence.
This plan was however called off when former US President Jimmy Carter met with North Korean leader Kim Il Sung and the two agreed to the basis of what would be the Agreed Framework.
Some were outside territorial waters, and had a second life in the 1960s as platforms for pirate radio stations, while another became the base of a micronation, the Principality of Sealand.
History The Australian Treasury was established in Melbourne in January 1901, after the federation of the six Australian colonies.
After withdrawing, Lazyshenskiy shot mortars, which were loaded with stone projectiles, at the redoubt, before eventually marching back to Lava.
Frances also campaigned for the Zulu people suffering under the British-imposed break-up of the Zulu nation following the end of the Zulu War.
According to Russian sources, over 130 people of both sexes were killed, 350 were taken captive, all livestock was seized, the outlying farms were burned, and winter crops were trampled.
The "Mental Health" program includes over 55 municipalities throughout Bosnia and focuses on helping fight the negative stigma associated with mental health and urges the people to seek for help.
Although these systems allowed infantry to engage even the largest tanks and, like HEAT, were effective regardless of range, they typically operated at short range.
He later characterizes the philosophy behind the Vietnam War and other Cold War conflicts as "Neo-Clausewitzian".
The Russo-Ukrainian War, particularly battles such as the protracted engagement over Bakhmut, has involved prolonged combat, high casualties, and resource depletion on both sides.
Other sources implicitly reject his opinion, by speaking of King David as having performed the laws governing a "beautiful captive woman".
A defensive war (German: Verteidigungskrieg) is one of the causes that justify war by the criteria of the Just War tradition.
External links LCCN 2012-933286 Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World, at website of Oxford University Press Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World, at LieberCode Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World, at academia.edu
He summarizes his view of the tour as an exercise that only created fresh animosity between the sides and viewpoints that varied based on the position on the political spectrum a person was on.
This differs by country as some do not have a formal or codified pre-approval process, and in such a case, a given head of government can declare war with no pre-conditions.
Colonel-general Yuri Votintsev, the then-commander of the Soviet Air Defense's Missile Defense Units, who was the first to hear Petrov's report of the incident (and the first to reveal it to the public in the 1990s), states that Petrov's "correct actions" were "duly noted".
He cites historical examples of war and demonstrates, "war is usually the outcome of a diplomatic crisis which cannot be solved because both sides have conflicting estimates of their bargaining power." Thirdly, bargaining may fail due to the states' inability to make credible commitments.
I will make no oral or written statements disloyal to my country and its allies or harmful to their cause.
United States The term theater of operations was defined in the American field manuals as the land and sea areas to be invaded or defended, including areas necessary for administrative activities incident to the military operations (chart 12).
George, an American behavioral scientist, presents an overview of the process and conflicting goals of crisis management as well as many examples.
In an interview for the film The Man Who Saved the World, Petrov says, "All that happened didn't matter to me—it was my job.
The concept of domicide originated in the 1970s, but only assumed its present meaning in 2022, after a report by the UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Adequate Housing, Balakrishnan Rajagopal.
The 1950s and 1960s saw the defense of Befehlsnotstand (English: compulsion to obey orders), a concept in which a certain action is ordered which violates law but where the refusal to carry it out would lead to drastic consequences for the person refusing.
The paratroop unit was instrumental in denying the retreat and regrouping of the Pakistani Army and contributed substantially to the early collapse of Dhaka via covert operations.
Infantry Infantry are soldiers who fight primarily on foot with small arms in organized military units.
See also Environmental impact of war Radiological warfare Notes References Cited sources Charatan, Fred (2006).
Fifth generation warfare has been described by Daniel Abbot as a war of "information and perception".
The people's perception of legitimacy about the host nation and the foreign country's counterinsurgency efforts is where success is determined.
Postwar After the war ended, Daladier was re-elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1946 and acted as a patron to the Radical-Socialist Party's young reforming leader, Pierre Mendès-France.
He chose these nations entire; of the rest of his allies he picked out a few from each people, the goodliest men and those that he knew to have done some good service...
I must answer for her before God.” In early 1810, General Bulgakov led a retaliatory campaign across the Kuban River, attacking Circassian auls and fortifications.
Guerrilla warfare As they are usually the smaller in number an appreciation of force concentration is especially important to guerrilla forces, who find it prudent initially to avoid confrontations with any large concentrations of government/occupying forces.
Controversies The 1994–1995 repatriation of Rohingyans According to some scholars, with time UNHCR left an initial preference for asylum and resettlement policies, tending to prefer repatriation measures of refugees instead.
The 24 July 2005, on the eve of the Day of the Galician Fatherland, two members of AMI were arrested accused of placing an explosive device of considerable power in the main headquarters of Caixa Galicia in Santiago de Compostela.
During World War I, they carried out an unusually harsh and severe occupation of areas which they conquered.
That version, which is still frequently used, read: I am an NCO dedicated to training new Marines and influencing the old.
Meanwhile, organizational flowing is inevitably based on flexibility to adapt to the rapid changes on the battlefield.
The intent is to protect the city's civilians and cultural landmarks from a battle which may be futile.
Moreover, in The Observer of March 10, 1946, Orwell wrote that "[a]fter the Moscow conference last December, Russia began to make a 'cold war' on Britain and the British Empire." The definition which has now become fixed is of a war waged through indirect conflict.
Professor Munroe was detonating different manufactured blocks of explosives on a sheet of armor plating and observed the blocks having the manufacturing letters recessed (vs.
In a collection of his works first published in 1801, John Dickinson took credit for writing the Declaration.
By one estimation, over 100 Irishmen were field marshals, generals, or admirals in the Austrian Army, with a corresponding number of men holding commissions in the lower ranks.
Due to incomplete records, the destruction of evidence, differing counting methods, and various other factors, the death tolls of wars are often uncertain and highly debated.
Not every violent conflict constitutes a war; for instance, mass killings and genocides occurring outside of wartime are excluded, as they are not necessarily wars in themselves.
Air Force Boeing B-47E-LM Stratojet near Savannah, Georgia, when a man in the bomb bay area grabbed the emergency release pin by accident.
In the United States, 89% of white Americans had a "very" or "somewhat" favorable opinion of the military, compared to 77% of Latinos and 72% of Black Americans.
This genre was well known among the Islamic groups who rebelled against the Umayyads such as the Muhakkimah, Zaydis, Murji’ites and Ibadis.
Second Mediterranean cruise Cumberland made her second cruise to the Mediterranean from 1849 to 1851.
It should be the longest part of the briefing and will explain in detail exactly what is going to be done under all conditions.
1983 Soviet nuclear false alarm incident On 26 September 1983, during the Cold War, the Soviet nuclear early warning system Oko reported the launch of one intercontinental ballistic missile with four more missiles behind it from the United States.
Under the principle of military necessity, a decision must be necessary for a legitimate military purpose.
It would replace the National Credit Corporation, an agency created in 1931 to restore the liquidity of banks on the brink of failure with loans funded by the interbank lending market.
Commerce and private ships were authorized to use their own designs to represent France, but were forbidden to fly the white ensign.
A military reserve is different from a military reserve force, which is a military organization composed of military personnel (reservists) who maintain their military skills and readiness in a long-term part-time commitment to support their country if needed.
Mythology The lore of an old Meitei text named Pudin tells how the Thang (sword) and Ta (spear) were created from the body parts and bones of Tin Sidaba (also known as Pakhangba).
International humanitarian law Definition War crimes are serious violations of the rules of customary and treaty law concerning international humanitarian law, criminal offenses for which there is individual responsibility.
Continental Policy before the Meiji Restoration Before the Meiji Restoration, the idea of expanding the lands ruled by Japan had already been expressed in the country.
It is important that voice procedures are followed so that no information can be gained by the enemy over the radio waves.
At the Front level an Operational Manoeuvre Group could include two tank divisions and three to five motor-rifle divisions.
Lieutenant-Colonel Anthony Durnford was stationed at Pietermaritzburg in 1873 where he was befriended by her father.
See also References External links Karl Liebknecht book "Militarism and Anti-Militarism" John Palatella, "The War of Words"
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Libya, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Yemen have been identified by various observers and commentators as possible sources for the other four negative votes, with Iraq, Libya, Qatar, and Yemen being the four most commonly identified.
After Durnford's death at the Battle of Isandlwana, Frances wrote a book with his brother exculpating him from responsibility for that British defeat by the Zulus.
The fall of Julfa was immediately followed by the abandonment of nearby Farahābād, which Mahmud occupied without resistance and made his headquarters.
Until 2018 it was based in Manchester, England, then the office has been transferred from Manchester to Berlin.
These are not the only possible teleological philosophies of war, but only three of the most common.
During the war there was minimal attention given to the standard of health and major public health concerns, such as pest control, hygiene, disinfection, and import and export programs, were all interrupted or stopped.
A common criticism is that the Kellogg–Briand Pact did not live up to all of its aims but has arguably had some success.
The Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) expressed their condolences to Yanayev's family.
Employing an array of video, literary, philosophical, religious and marketing psychology approaches, the introductory "Interest Evening" culminates with the famously simple but effective "BBs demonstration".
Christina Springer: Das Österreichische Schwarze Kreuz – seine Tätigkeit und sein Wirkungsbereich nach 1945.
The "Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous, or Other Gases and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare", also known as the Geneva Protocol, was issued in 1925 and was accepted as policy by all major countries.
He was also successful in the dispute with Zürich over the inheritance of the counts of Toggenburg, acquiring the Toggenburg as a co-dominium of Schwyz and Glarus in 1436.
By the end of 1916, there were 16,637 French and Belgian prisoners interned, 1,866 British, and 8,487 German and Austrian.
They steamed up the Ubangi River to its head of navigation and then marched overland (carrying 100 tons of supplies, including a collapsible steel steamboat with a one-ton boiler) through jungle and scrub to the deserts of Sudan.
In 2021, Paramount TV Studios, eOne, Skydance and Amazon Prime Video are developing the first live action G.I.
In contemporary sources, Schwyz chronologist Hans Fründ only gives a very brief mention to the massacre and does not mention Reding's name in connection with it.
Insurance companies typically will not cover damages caused by war because such an event could cause damage that would be likely to bankrupt them if they had to cover it.
Lincoln was with Senator Orville Browning when Seward brought in the first newspaper dispatches, which indicated Palmerston was demanding a release of the prisoners and an apology.
It emphasised the continued responsibility of the scientific community to promote peaceful cooperation and to address both traditional and new forms of existential risk.
Intended audience The policies may be written to cover high-profile companies, non-governmental organizations, C-Suite level executives or similar strategic individuals, or individuals who represent local or multinational organizations.
Contrary to Jefferson's recollection in his old age, Dickinson's version was not less radical; according to Boyd, in some respects, Dickinson's draft was blunter.
Many governments worldwide also condemned the attack, including the government of Apartheid South Africa which ended its covert military assistance to Rhodesia, reduced the supply of oil and munitions, and began to pressure the Rhodesian government to accept a transition to black majority rule.
Hackl, Wohlrab, Leeb, and Maitzen were found guilty of high treason, sentenced to death, and executed by hanging on 13 August 1934.
Role in the Cuban Missile Crisis On 27 October 1962, during the Cuban Missile Crisis, a group of 11 United States Navy destroyers and the aircraft carrier USS Randolph (CV-15) detected the Soviet diesel-powered, nuclear-armed Foxtrot-class submarine B-59 near Cuba.
Frodo was born in early 1976 and spent his first years experiencing the Four-Year War and a simultaneous "infanticide streak" by two Kasakela females.
Sophisticated use of technology allows an organization to disseminate information to a vast number of people.
Moreover, since the native population was non-Christian, the Europeans' Christian religion conferred upon them the right and indeed the obligation to take possession of the lands and the people in the name of God and the throne.
Feminism and "independentism" are other ideological pillars of AMI, as well as using of reintegracionist spelling of the Galician language.
The speed and lethality inherent in these methods necessitated a greater degree of independence allowed to the units on the front lines.
Spanish–American War: all males in Spain could vote, and the constitution theoretically protected many civil liberties.
They are often presented as a counterpoint to psychiatric orthodoxy and inform criticisms of mental health research and practice in that it has become too focused on genetics, neurochemistry and medication.
government "the greatest purveyor of violence in the world today." He connected the war with economic injustice, arguing that the country needed serious moral change: A true revolution of values will soon look uneasily on the glaring contrast of poverty and wealth.
By far the most rigid and authoritarian regime was imposed by the United States, though General John J.
A bobolian or bobohizan (priest or priestess) will cut its throat in an act of animal sacrifice, and its blood is then poured into the hole.
Editorials and cartoons in Action often asserted that the British Empire needed to prepare for a defensive war against Japan and that war with Germany would put Britain's interests in Asia in jeopardy.
"War and Peace and International Law: The Kellogg–Briand Peace Pact Reconsidered." Canadian Journal of History (2018) 53#1 : 86–96.
In 1995 Radchenko left Sakhalin for the United States as an exchange student in the US government-funded FLEX/FSA program.
The superiority of concentrated forces using maneuver warfare in the hypothetical example carried the proviso of "all other things being equal"; by 1944 things were far from being equal.
Due to disobedience, the Hussite armies suffered unnecessary losses in both soldiers and weapons and property ("in brothers and property").
Seeckt inspired a revision of Bewegungskrieg (maneuver warfare) thinking and its associated Auftragstaktik in which the commander expressed his goals to subordinates and gave them discretion in how to achieve them.
The book argues that the pattern is sharply evident, for example in the 300 years of Ancient Greek history, the Swiss cantons since the 14th century, the County of Flanders during the 14th century, the three-and-a-half centuries of the Hanseatic League, and Renaissance Italy.
Blanton, director of the National Security Archive at George Washington University, said: Arkhipov was "the man who saved the world." Arkhipov became a rear admiral in 1975 and head of the Kirov Naval Academy.
The declaration is usually the act of delivering a performative speech or the presentation of a signed document by an authorized party of a national government in order to create a state of war between two or more sovereign states.
Stabilization is generally used to refer to the immediate post-conflict phase in a militarized conflict.
Format OPORD [sequential order number and fiscal year] [code name] - [issuing headquarters] (place the overall security classification and an abbreviated title at the top of the second and any following pages.) 1.
Her school was next door to the Texas residence of her family friend whom she supported, Francisco I.
In the British army during World War I, the maximum penalty for a self-inflicted wound ("Willfully maiming himself with intent to render himself unfit for service", as it was described) under Section 18 of the Army Act 1881 was imprisonment, rather than capital punishment.
Freddy's characteristic of keeping his gloved arm lower than the other was incidental due to the knives being heavy to wear for Englund and forcing him to carry himself as such while playing the role.
Now one of them has coronavirus." On the same day NPR published the headline "Kentucky Has 39 New Cases; 1 Person Attended A 'Coronavirus Party'".
The Japanese military during World War II encouraged and glorified kamikaze attacks, and Japanese society as a whole has been described as "suicide-tolerant" (see Suicide in Japan).
Prompted by the film's alternative title, many film critics have interpreted the young man's process of self-mutilation as a metaphor for the self-destructive involvement of the United States in the Vietnam War.
The lines that are missing are from "Hey Slim, I drank a fifth of vodka, you dare to me to drive?" to "I hope you know I ripped all of your pictures off the wall".
(These embryos hatch into first stage larva.) The fertilized eggs are brought into the uterus by actions of the uterine bell, a funnel like opening continuous with the uterus.
A Bright Red Scream: Self-Mutilation and the Language of Pain is a 1998 non-fiction psychology book written by American journalist Marilee Strong about self-harm.
The police inform Aaron that, because of the second statement, they are pressing charges against Gordon.
Also, the British College of Policing advises to use these criteria named after Irene Ovenstone to determine a suspected suicide.
This can make diagnosis difficult as symptoms are not always immediately obvious, or have been deliberately hidden to avoid disclosure.
The imaginary world of Headspace was based on lucid dreaming, and to instil a dreamlike tone, concepts for were devised as it was created.
They may become socially withdrawn to avoid situations which in their perception may make them vomit.
Type I is a passive or active threat with no associated suicidal intent; Type II is a passive or covert threat with an undetermined level of intent; and Type III is a passive or covert threat with some degree of suicidal intent.
Development Casting Actress Gemma Atkinson was cast in the role of Lisa, a member of the new Hunter family, in 2001.
A recurring adversary of the superhero Batman, Zsasz belongs to the collective of enemies that make up Batman's rogues gallery.
Ewert, who lived in Harrogate, North Yorkshire, England where assisted suicide is punishable by 14 years in jail, travelled to Switzerland where he was assisted by the Swiss NGO Dignitas at a rented Zurich apartment.
He is resurrected by a crow and seeks vengeance on the murderers, methodically stalking and killing them.
American chemist Alexander Shulgin synthesized hundreds of compounds in search of psychoactive drugs like psychedelics and entactogens, and evaluated them via careful self-experimentation together with his wife Ann Shulgin and a small research group of good friends.
McQueen added that the pair have fun together and that she does not take romantic scenes too seriously.
Awards and nominations Wintergirls was a New York Times bestseller and ALA best book for young adults.
Virgin Records executives saw "Today" as the ideal lead single, but Corgan wanted "Cherub Rock", one of the last songs written for the album, as the lead single.
The special episode reportedly entered into the second key animation process only five days before it was aired, prompting a displeased animator to air their grievances in a post on Bilibili.
On returning home, Vittorio loses his temper and humiliates her, forcing her to be naked and throwing the food she had managed to hide into the fireplace.
An objection to this explanation is that deaths by healthy adolescents likely do not increase inclusive fitness.
The experimenter's probability amplitude in the wavefunction decreases significantly, meaning they exist with a much lower measure than they had before.
He subsequently asked his friends, "Remember how we always talked about how, if we ever had the chance to ethically eat human meat, would you do it?" In spring 2023, a Spanish influencer, Paula Gonu, ate her knee cartilage in spaghetti Bolognese after the cartilage had been removed in knee surgery.
Undetermined Suicide-Related Behavior is self-injurious behavior for which the person is unable or reluctant to admit positively to the intent to die, which have resulted in no injuries, for Type I, and injuries, for Type II.
She stays with her estranged mother Adora, step-father Alan, and half-sister Amma in Adora's Victorian mansion.
The Werther effect occurs when suicides that are made publicly known encourage others to imitate them.
Premise The series follows a group of teenagers from Latina, particularly a pair of identical twins, Andrea and Marco.
Euthanasia, more specifically voluntary euthanasia, is where another person takes a more active role in bringing about a person's death.
The town is practically uninhabited and has a much darker air about it, and tattoo parlors and seedy shops have replaced the nice stores that once lined the main street.
Maudsley Family Therapy is an evidence-based approach to the treatment of anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa whose efficacy has been supported by empirical research.
Catherine writes the story in order to come to terms with the damage the relationship caused her and her brother.
References - Hanley et al 2019, "Review of Scientific Self-Experimentation: Ethics History, Regulation, Scenarios, and Views Among Ethics Committees and Prominent Scientists"
Having reached the limit, in order to free herself, Sonia commits an extreme gesture so, taking advantage of a moment of distraction from Vittorio, she grabs the fire iron and kills him by hitting him on the head.
What starts out as cutting junk food from her diet soon progresses to skipping meals, and Summer starts experiencing dizzy spells and a drop in her dancing performance.
"Digging Deep: Ailments of Difference in Octavia Butler's "The Evening and the Morning and the Night"." Black and Brown Planets: The Politics of Race in Science Fiction.
She loves to attract potential sexual partners by parading, underneath her dress, her unwashed vulva and the smells emanating from it.
Background Auto-vampirism is considered a pathology of vampiristic behavior or "clinical vampirism", which also includes any violent or sexual act done to or in the presence of the body of a dead being, not drinking the blood of a living human.
Hood also produced documentary audio tours of Oregon general stores, viewing them as vanishing examples of personal, character-driven commerce.
The novella opens with two quotes from Frankenstein analogous to how an eating disorder creates a disassociation between the body, the self and the idea of disliking the body you were created in, as Nash describes.
Medical and physical factors Many medical causes underlying the development of feather-plucking have been proposed including allergies (contact/inhalation/food), endoparasites, ectoparasites, skin irritation (e.g.
One study that supported the addiction theory of picking found that 79% of patients with excoriation disorder reported a pleasurable feeling when picking.
She encourages Hunter to get in contact with his grandmother, who later reports them both to the police for keeping quiet about Hunter's involvement in stealing the diner safe some months previously.
In April 2023, the film's director Lee Cronin stated that Campbell's character in the film was one "that could very well be Ash Williams", displaced in time.
Flagellantism Flagellantism was a 14th-century movement, consisting of penitents in the Catholic Church.
Some may also have macrocytic anemia due to the faulty DNA synthesis, most likely due to deficient purine synthesis that leads to a lag of cell division with respect to increases in cell mass.
However, soldiers were considered lucky if they were paid two out of the seven tomans due for their service.
Wasted has sold in the United States over a million copies and has been translated into fourteen languages.
The core curriculum centered on five first aid strategies incorporated into a mnemonic device: "Look, Ask, Listen, Help, Your Friends." Students were taught to identify symptoms and ultimately connect their peers with an adult.
Some people are also known to exercise excessively, purge with laxatives or vomiting and/or binge eat.
By the 14th century, the Church was less tolerant and the rapid spread of the movement was alarming.
When they feel too stressed out, they start beating their heads against hard surfaces, which leads to death.
For example, in the comune of Guardia Sanframondi in Campania, such parades are organized once every seven years.
James Caird subsequently used his wealth to support Ernest Shackleton's Trans-Antarctic expedition of 1914–1917, and was a significant benefactor to the city of Dundee.
Days later, Victoria Derbyshire hosted a debate on her BBC News programme, questioning the effectiveness of a 13+ age rating given the game's mature content aimed at a young anime-style demographic.
Each of these trunks is surrounded by muscles, and this nerve-muscle complex is called a retinaculum.
Meanwhile, Stan becomes surprised to learn that the more he exercises and the less he eats, the fatter and fatter he gets; he then suspects that Francine and Hayley are tampering with his vegetables to make him fatter, which turns out to be true.
Those who support the right to die argue that suicide is acceptable under certain circumstances, such as incurable disease and old age.
A spokesman for Dignity in Dying criticized Brown's statement: "Gordon Brown's comments underline why there needs to be a full debate in Parliament on this issue".
Jane is bullied at Hemingway High, where her main tormentor is a promiscuous and alcoholic cheerleader named Amber Dunn.
A national magazine picked up on the story and Meehan was deluged by thousands of phone calls and letters.
The song was produced, recorded, and mixed by Griffin Boice at the Beat Suite in Hollywood, California.
It has since made the list with each new book release, including an appearance at #1 when Spirit Bound was released.
However, a 2009 study compared two groups of airmen participating in the United States Air Force Suicide Prevention Program (AFSPP).
Often simply known as anorexia, this is an eating disorder which is characterized by an obsessive fear of gaining weight, weight loss, and distorted body image.
She's extremely manipulative and spoiled; as the daughter of a rich CEO (and possible future mayor), she uses her powers, charisma and conceit to force others to do her will, also by blackmail, threats or sexual favors.
Another class of possible pharmacological treatments is glutamatergic agents such as N-acetylcysteine (NAC).
In his book Beyond Weird, physicist and writer Philip Ball, a critic of the many-worlds interpretation, calls the quantum suicide experiment "cognitively unstable" and exemplary of the difficulties of the many-worlds theory with probabilities.
While BDD has been misdiagnosed as anorexia nervosa, it also occurs comorbidly in 25% to 39% of AN cases.
If I had a child to bring up, I would make his God his companion in such a real sense that he would perhaps find it less difficult to become an atheist, than to escape his presence.
Since the characters are not coordinating their plans, they end up destroying all their food and utilities, forcing all of them to struggle to survive starvation, cold, and darkness.
A Nightmare on Elm Street: Suffer the Children is a 2005 British horror novel written by David Bishop and published by Black Flame.
Chelsea also realises that Ravi has been using her and ends their relationship, though they later reconcile.
Blessing was also used to tackle the issue of self-harm, with the character cutting herself on a few occasions.
Gray's parents were content for Millais to chaperone her – for example, on an overnight train to London – and, whatever the truth of any rumour, Effie remained close to her sister and often invited her to stay after she and Millais moved back to London in 1861.
Rolling Stone called "shaming people on the internet for not properly socially distancing" the favorite new American pastime.
That evening a citation of nullity was delivered to Ruskin, together with certain effects such as Effie's wedding ring and her keys.
A former drug addict like Rowe, she tries hard to defend herself from Lisa Rowe's accusations that she isn't "real".
External links Official website at Comic Days (in Japanese) That's My Atypical Girl at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
The Jackeroo Ranch estate in Kenthurst had been used for the exterior sets of the Summer Bay House and Caravan Park since 1988.
I hope that the people who need to be touched by her story will be." Hollyoaks had previously had another character, Jason Costello (Victoria Atkin), come out as transgender in 2010.
In 2013, he was convicted for war crimes against the Bosniak population during the Croat–Bosniak War alongside five other Bosnian Croat officials, and was sentenced to 20 years in jail (minus the time he had already spent in detention).
It is a play on the concept in vampire folklore which says that vampires cannot enter a house unless invited.
Only after Oedipus gouges out his own eyes, physically blinding himself, does he gain prophetic ability, as exhibited in Oedipus at Colonus.
Educational value In creating the "IS PATH WARM" mnemonic, one of the American Association of Suicidology's stated goals was to aid the general public in learning and recalling the warning signs of suicide.
Free has Major Tom transmit an SOS to Mansfield, whom Free believes was manipulated by a conspiracy to get him and Skye to continue the Jason-related projects started by Bardox and Castillo.
The absolute number of suicides, however, is greatest in those between 15 and 29 years old, due to the number of people in this age group.
The National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders (ANAD) is the oldest organization aimed at fighting eating disorders in the United States.
Non-pharmacological interventions, including behavior modification programs, may be considered; referrals to psychologists or psychiatrists may be considered when other interventions fail.
He believed that whether one can live or chooses to live is the only truly serious philosophical problem.
Individuals experiencing suicide bereavement experience different challenges than those otherwise bereaved.
To research the book, she interviewed over 50 people who intentionally harm themselves, many of them by cutting.
Writing for the Canadian Jewish News, Phoebe Maltz Bovy commended Freeman's "characteristically engaging style" adding that "Good Girls is [a] rare study-citing, professor-interviewing non-fiction book that never feels like a homework assignment".
In November 2014, the show filmed an episode at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra with several cast members, as a tribute to the Anzac Centenary.
The law primarily targeted Dignitas, the sole organization offering assisted suicide to non-resident foreign nationals.
This study in excess may win Barker new readers, but not a better reputation." Film adaptation On 13 May 2001, Barker planned to produce a film adaption of the novel with John Heffernan writing the screenplay for Warner Bros.
Plot Wealthy businessman Jackson Mansfield has his protégé, Free Jefferson, hire five specialists to build a cybernetic lifeform on Elysium, one of the two moons of Earth II.
He fell into a state of hopelessness and longed to return to his creative work and his usual stable life.
The patient will then undergo another interview, and finally, they will have to ratify their decision before two witnesses at least one of whom shall not receive any financial benefit due to the death of the declarant.
In a side mission, he takes several hostages and forces Batman to find various payphones within a set amount of time or else he will kill them.
Stefan saw Oskar and Eli after they had disembarked from the train on which they were riding in the epilogue.
Psychological autopsy in suicidology (or also psychiatric autopsy) is a systematic procedure for evaluating suicidal intention in equivocal cases.
It premiered at the Fort Lauderdale International Film Festival on November 3, 2008 but never received theatrical distribution.
It has also placed advisory warnings on some Momo videos alerting viewers of "inappropriate or offensive" content.
Later in 2020, Omori received its final release date of December 25, when it was released on MacOS and Windows via Steam.
It follows Camille Preaker (Adams), an emotionally troubled reporter who returns to her hometown to cover the murders of two young girls.
Given the social stigma associated with suicide, suicide survivors are often unable to cope with their loss and grief using normal support systems, and are "forced into a privatized and individualistic mode of grieving," making the healing process even more difficult.
Literary critics praised Flynn for her exploration of psychological complexity, dark family dynamics, and her sharp prose.
As Camille continues her investigation, she enters into a sexual relationship with Richard but avoids revealing her scars.
Life-Size is the debut novel by South African author Jenefer Shute, published in 1992 and is a Literary Guild selection.
Interventions recognize that those bereaved by suicide may be vulnerable to suicidal behaviour themselves and may develop complicated grief reactions.
The mental health landscape in Myanmar underwent a dramatic deterioration following 1 February 2021, when the military junta (or Tatmadaw) ousted the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi and seized power.
However, she later turns all classmates (except Miki and Yūki) against Ayumu for a misunderstanding, in which Katsumi breaks up with her and starts to pursue Ayumu, although he tells Manami that "Ayumu is pursuing him".
They corroborated it by research in which half of patients hospitalized after a suicide attempt admitted to having an internal struggle between life and death: 40% of them were inclined to death and 9% expressed a will to live.
Inside the syncytium is an irregular layer of circular muscle fibres, and within this again some rather scattered longitudinal fibres; there is no endothelium.
Booklist praised McCormick's depiction of Callie, saying that she was an "exceptional character study".
Possible explanations Alcohol Birthday celebrations are often associated with large increases in alcohol consumption.
The soap opera was initially called Refuge, but the name was changed to the "friendlier" title of Home and Away once production began.
Pliny believed that "a great part of mankind are of the opinion that there is nothing else in life worth living for" and that alcoholics were "driven to frenzy" and a "thousand crimes." Galen describes a teacher's young slave dying after consuming large amounts of alcohol.
Zygielbojm wished his letter to be widely publicized and hoped that "the Polish Government [would] embark immediately on diplomatic action...
Abra, aided by a returned Ric, decided to go ahead with the operations anyway, and secured the use of Kellar theatre at night from Clifford.
He was given the opportunity after the club suffered two consecutive fiascos against Duisburg and Bochum, prompting coach Eberhard Vogel to drop the former first-choice goalkeeper Mario Neumann for the youngster Enke.
He described experiencing intense euphoria at the higher DMT doses due to his excitement about the discovery.
On July 26, Anderson announced that she would embark on a promotional tour across North America and Europe in the fall of 2011.
A suicide note or death note is a message written by a person who intends to die by suicide, often intended to be read afterwards.
Cognitive behavioral therapy was cited as experimental evidence based therapy to treat trichotillomania and nail biting; a systematic review found best evidence for habit reversal training and decoupling.
In 2019, the novel was ranked 96th on The Guardian's list of the 100 best books of the 21st century.
Reception Critical reception for Cut was overwhelmingly positive, with Kirkus Reviews calling the book "a thoughtful look at teenage mental illness and recovery".
Nevertheless, Buddhism does not condemn suicide without exception, but rather observes that the reasons for suicide are often negative and thus counteract the path to enlightenment.
The New York Times said that "We recognize Lia, but it's sometimes hard to relate to her." Common Sense Media rated the novel five stars, noting that the novel's writing style is innovative and that Lia's references to fairy tale imagery makes it appealing to young adult female readers.
The members of the group adopted names which consisted of three letters followed by the suffix -ody to signify themselves as "children of the Next Level".
The series treats sexual abuse, drug abuse, depression, self-harm, suicide, bullying, white nationalist and homophobic violent extremism, school shootings, the underground economy, sex work, and misogyny as recurring subjects.
In part, this is accomplished by modeling to the parents an uncritical stance toward the adolescent.
Of joining the cast, Banno stated "I feel so fortunate that my start at working full-time in the industry is through being cast in something as respected as Home and Away.
The term "stan" has since become an internet slang term for an extremely obsessed fan of something or someone and is derived from the song's title.
Additionally, if a person has a comorbid psychiatric disorder, it may be difficult to find a medication that addresses both the psychiatric disorder and suicidal ideation.
Anderson made the best Nineties album of 2014 (if any of us were worried about technology and surveillance taking over our lives 20 years ago).
The simpler model consists of an electrode and a radio transmitter wrapped around the arm or leg using Velcro.
And Allāh is Forgiving and Merciful." Jabir reported: When the Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, emigrated to Medina, Al-Tufayl ibn ‘Amr also emigrated along with a man from his people.
A 2019 review makes a similar claim, noting that instead of increasing the use of psychotherapy (as the FDA had hoped), the warning has increased the use of benzodiazepines.
Written by a daughter and her mother, Hungry depicts Lisa Himmel's struggle with anorexia and bulimia.
In April 1975, during a meeting with a group of 80 people in Studio City, Los Angeles, they shared their "simultaneous" revelation that they were the two witnesses in the Bible's story of the end time.
Privately, other politicians also criticised Gordon Brown, claiming that he had breached a convention of government neutrality by expressing a view on an issue recognised as one of conscience rather than party policy.
Her mother took her place on the train, while she and her father returned to London to deliver a package from Effie to her solicitors.
References External links Official website Class of '09 at itch.io Class of '09 at The Visual Novel Database
Excoriation disorder has a high rate of comorbidity with other psychiatric conditions, especially with mood and anxiety disorders.
In 2017, Heaven's Gate was the subject of a 10-part podcast of the same name produced by Glynn Washington to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the mass suicide.
Their relationship becomes closer, and they reveal more of themselves, including fragments of Eli's life.
While pro-suicide resources were less frequent than neutral or anti-suicide sites, they were nonetheless easily accessible.
Camille also forms a relationship with Richard Willis, a detective from Kansas City investigating the possibility of a serial killer.
Heavy drinking A study conducted by French scientists have shown that loud music leads to more alcohol consumption in less time.
The NHS further provides guidance on fixtures such as curtain tracking systems, and the role of fire safety and infection control in product specification.
In the Toronto Star Heather Mallick commended Freeman for her "precise and questing mind" and for her "willingness to dig out complications that lazier journalists miss".
Depression is a major causative factor of suicide, and individuals with depression are considered a high-risk group for suicidal behavior.
Existential psychology and humanistic psychology Ludwig Binswanger first diagnosed Ellen West using existential analysis.
This was a huge boost to Sky Real Lives' ratings – the show had less than 10,000 viewers in the same time slot a week before.
In one study of subjects ambivalent about suicide, persons inclined towards death were 6.5 times more likely to die than those that inclined towards living.
The creators also modeled Spanky's personality on David "Puck" Rainey from The Real World: San Francisco.
Examples of equivocal death scenarios include drug-related deaths, autoerotic and self-induced asphyxia, vehicular deaths, and drownings.
The story follows three major arcs: Natil trying to guide the new Elves in what it means to be an Elf; Sandy Joy's search for safety and acceptance; and T.K.'s search for hope and a sense of belonging.
There have been anecdotal reports of dogs, horses, and dolphins killing themselves, but little scientific study has been done regarding animal suicide.
Studies With the introduction of statistical software that can process large datasets easily, a number of state- or country-wide studies have been carried out to investigate whether birthdays have any effect on mortality.
Numerous other critics have drawn similar comparisons to the magical girl genre, citing such anime as Flip Flappers and Puella Magi Madoka Magica.
History The earliest recognisable description of Acanthocephala – a worm with a proboscis armed with hooks – was made by Italian author Francesco Redi (1684).
EMA followed up 2011’s critically acclaimed Past Life Martyred Saints with a navel-gazing passion project, and the best thing she’s done." Rolling Stone wrote in its own best-of-the-year note that "Erika M.
Prompted by the discovery the siblings then start a sexual relationship which lasts for three years; coming to an end on a holiday in Cornwall after which Christopher leaves home; eventually emigrating to South Africa.
Skin picking is also common in those with certain developmental disabilities, for example, Prader–Willi syndrome and Smith–Magenis syndrome.
He noted occasional voracious appetite for very brief periods, but states that these were very rare and exceptional.
Diagnostic criteria from the DSM-5 provides the following criteria for trichotillomania: Criterion A: Recurrent pulling of hair that must result in loss of hair.
The hooks may be of two or three shapes, usually: longer, more slender hooks are arranged along the length of the proboscis, with several rows of more sturdy, shorter nasal hooks around the base of the proboscis.
While they get back together, Katsumi becomes a target of Akira who is following Manami's request (in the drama, he's explicitly going out with Ms.
In the UK, for example, those who enlist young have been found to face an increased risk of self-harm and suicide after leaving the armed forces, relative both to older personnel and to their civilian peers.
Anderson (also known as EMA), former lead singer of the noise-folk band Gowns, released in Europe on April 7, 2014 on City Slang, and in the United States on April 8 on Matador Records.
Premise In the first two games, the player controls Nicole, who introduces herself as a sociopath in the opening monologue.
The film rights to Sharp Objects were purchased by Blumhouse Productions and Alliance Films in 2012, with Flynn initially working as the screenwriter.
The researchers concluded: Participants in the standard briefing significantly increased their ability to list suicide warning signs and improved consistency with an expert consensus list, whereas participants in the standard briefing plus mnemonic demonstrated no learning.
In desperation, Jacob blasts Freddy with all of Springwood's pent-up dream energy, which frees all of the tortured souls and overwhelms Freddy, who explodes and is banished back to the Dream World.
A desperate Harry eventually convinces Nicola to pay off his remaining debt before she departs Walford temporarily; Ravi agrees to this but continues to use Kojo.
They have four daughters and a son, Brittany (born 1981), Brendan (born 1983), Casey (born 1986), Kevyn (born 1989), and Kylie (born 1992).
Praljak voluntarily joined the newly formed Croatian Armed Forces after the outbreak of the Croatian War of Independence in 1991.
After listening to a drunken Colby talking about his heartbreak, Bella takes a can of gasoline to Mackenzie's restaurant, Salt, and plans to set the place on fire, but Dean and Willow catch her in time.
was shown at the Toronto International Film Festival in Canada on 14 November 2007 and at the Reykjavik International Film Festival in Iceland on 26 September.
In January 2010, it was invited to the World Cinema Narrative Competition at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival.
The teased cover contained a logo almost identical to the Heaven's Gate logo, with similar text and visuals below.
In an example of dramatic irony, Eminem also urges Stan to receive help for his mental health issues and to treat his girlfriend better, lest he end up like a man he just saw on the news who had driven his car off a bridge in a drunken stupor, killing himself and his pregnant girlfriend.
Hiding her illness from her family, Lia's obsessive and destructive behavior worsens and recovery seems impossible.
Medical studies have found antidepressants help treat cases of suicidal ideation and work especially well with psychological therapy.
Repetition A nonfatal suicide attempt is the strongest known clinical predictor of eventual suicide.
After being discovered being treated by his own mother, Kyla and Lola Griffin convinced him to discharge himself and return to Ghana.
Eli dresses in girls' clothing, is perceived by outsiders as a girl, and insists on being referred to as one.
When a therapist starts treating a new patient they need to make sure to connect with the patient and create a professional, but helpful client to therapist bond because that connection will help the patient.
Intrapersonal positive reinforcement involves self-injury being followed by an increase in desired thoughts or feelings such as a feeling of satisfaction.
The new titles, which currently change during each week, mostly feature two men or two women running down to the ocean for a surf.
Olivia receives a job interview with a wedding fashion company in Melbourne, but when she returns she admits that it did not go well once they brought up her history with The Find.
ANAD also hosts a variety of weekly virtual support groups and a peer mentorship mentorship program for those struggling with an eating disorder.
The process of brief therapy under emergency psychiatric conditions includes the establishment of a primary complaint from the patient, realizing psychosocial factors, formulating an accurate representation of the problem, coming up with ways to solve the problem, and setting specific goals.
It is in his nature." Publication Black Flame approached author Nancy Kilpatrick about writing for the company and suggested she pen a novel based on Jason X.
In 2009, a study notifies that 69% of women say they have suffered at least once physical, psychological or economic violence, when the husband does not give anything for the family.
This calendar is a simple chart who matches the day of conception of the future child with the age of the mother at the day of conception.
He writes: There has been an inverse movement of lexical differentiation operating at the heart of the concept of homophobia.
Around 6:30 pm, when they reached Bantala near the Eastern metropolitan bypass, a group of 4-5 youths stopped their car near the local club.
Based on the novel The Cubs and Other Stories by the Peruvian writer Mario Vargas Llosa, the film was directed by Jorge Fons and starring José Alonso, Helena Rojo, Carmen Montejo and Augusto Benedico.
A victim of sexual assault may be subjected to speculative allegations of wrongdoing during cross-examination.
This version went: A longer version published by Tobias Krummschnabel in 1870 portrays the sex as consensual.
In July 2001, JR East began a similar service on the Saikyo Line, which connects Tokyo with Saitama Prefecture and had become notorious for gropers because of crowding and longer distances between stops.
Online stereotypes The phenomenon described by Serano is particularly evident in online depictions of trans women, mainly in Internet memes wherein trans women are often derogatorily portrayed as masculine men wearing feminine clothing.
Păun briefly reversed before pursuing the shooter, who turned another corner and tried to enter a kiosk.
In May 2019, the drag queen "Annie Depressant" received abuse for an event at Whittlesea Library; the conservative Facebook page Political Posting Mumma (run by Marijke Rancie) had called on its "warriors" to respond to the library's social media posts to protest the event.
In the Middle East, homosexuality has been seen as a tool of Western domination for the same reason.
According to Weitzer and Kubrin's 2009 analysis, 22% of rap songs surveyed in their study contained misogynistic lyrics.
Attack Surveillance video showed the perpetrator leaving his home by foot towards the Crown Spa, less than two kilometres away.
The United States Human Trafficking Hotline describes maid abuse as a form of human trafficking— it is "force, fraud, or coercion to maintain control over the worker and to cause the worker to believe that he or she has no other choice but to continue with the work," they stated.
Fang Yuzhu of the China Women's Federation credits it with a "strong sense of duty" that Chinese women have, and the idea that it is shameful to leave their husband.
She was returning home from work with two other girls when she was kidnapped by three people in a red Tata Indica car in Phase II Qutub Vihar on 9 February 2012.
The organization considers this policy to be a protection against malicious accusations of sexual assault and states that this two-witness policy is applied solely to congregational discipline and has no bearing on whether a crime is reported to the authorities in countries where this is mandatory.
After Amnesty International protested to the Egyptian government in March 2011, the government claimed the tests were carried out in order to refute claims that the women had been raped while in detention.
There is a need for such a sex-neutral term since sexually discriminatory killing is just as wrong when the victims happen to be male.
In the Qur'an, marriage to female prisoners of war who embraced Islam is recommended for those who cannot afford to marry other Muslim women according to Islamic law (Sura 4:25).
Watts, Hossain, and Zimmerman (2013) reported that 72.4% of the survivors had at least one gynecological complaint.
In this, he combined Mauss' ideas about the importance of gifts in primitive societies with the role of the incest taboo in forcing exchanges of mates outside of closely related family groups.
In a study by Nigerian physician Mairo Usman Mandara, over 30 percent of women with gishiri cuts were found to have vesicovaginal fistulae (holes that allow urine to seep into the vagina).
UNSCR 1960 (2010) UNSCR 1960 encourages the inclusion of women in police, civil and military functions during peacekeeping missions.
A following study comparing marital and stranger rape victims also discovered that both types of victims experienced related types and levels of post-trauma distress.
Furthermore, when females are constantly moving around to avoid violent males, they are not able to form female social ties (for example, Grévy's zebra/Equus grevyi).
Kip Kinkel (born 1982), an Oregon boy who was convicted of killing his parents at home on May 20, 1998.
The South Carolina Supreme Court ruled that the castration option would be cruel, however, and the men were sentenced to prison.
The marriage was not happy and Stephen beat her frequently and discouraged her charitable activities.
Immediately before his death, a total of 17 million yen were transferred from his bank account to Kijima's deposit account.
The practice is rooted in gender inequality, attempts to control female sexuality, religious beliefs and ideas about purity, modesty, and beauty.
Such incidents usually occur between a husband's wife and mistress to attain power and socioeconomic security.
According to journalist Ahmed Ali Fayyaz, Bhat’s murder was not seen as "high-profile." In 2025, the murder case was transferred to the special investigation agency (SIA) of Jammu and Kashmir police.
According to his online diary, Henderson claimed he was abused by his mother, alleging that she once placed a gun to his head when he was between seven and nine years old.
Chandrachud also highlighted other instances of violence against medical professionals in West Bengal, Bihar and Hyderabad, calling the lack of safe working conditions for healthcare workers "deeply" concerning.
The Pararia mass rape was an incident of caste-based violence that affected several regions of Bihar, India, between the 1980s and 1990s.
Rape pornography, as well as revenge porn and other similar subgenres depicting violence, has been associated with rape culture.
The killing of about 50–70% of Cambodia’s working-age men lead to a shift in norms regarding the sexual division of labor and correlates with present-day indicators of women's economic advancements and increased representation in local-level elected office.
Fratricide (from Latin fratricidium; from frater 'brother' and -cīdium 'killing' – the assimilated root of caedere 'to kill, cut down') is the act of killing one's own brother.
His protagonist, Stephen Daedalus, sees girls who he admires as ivory towers, and the repression of his sexual feelings for them eventually leads him to solicit a prostitute.
The veneration of Thomais was never hugely popular and she is absent from the Synaxarion of Constantinople.
According to MLI sources, they troops were fired upon by armed insurgents which led to the death of one MLI soldier.
Theron's acting has continued to receive critical acclaim; film critic Roger Ebert called Theron's role "one of the greatest performances in the history of the cinema".
On 3 November 2015 the Allahabad High Court observed that a child born out of rape will have inheritance rights over the property of the assaulter and will be treated as illegitimate.
The victims were Roslyn and Padma, both lottery ticket vendors, who were living away from their families.
The stream of X- and Y- droplets is then separated by means of electrostatic deflection and collected into separate collection tubes for subsequent processing.
Reaction Cardinal Baselios Cleemis met the victim in the hospital and told the press that "such inhuman acts should be stopped.
Benabar's 2003 song Je suis de celles linked male contempt for 'easy girls' who they nevertheless used and the fate of shaven women "in another era".
Another rape case, in Jammu and Kashmir, also received national attention during the same period, leading to joint protests seeking justice for both victims.
Protocol for gaining a history of the use of contraceptives, as a woman's use of birth control pills or other contraceptives before a rape affect her chance of becoming pregnant.
Digital Divides Digital divides in access have particularly acute implications in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC), as it remains the most socially unequal region in the world.
Verdicts However, procedural lapses by the police and prosecution ensured that the accused were acquitted in the case.
Use The ELITE SHARP CTT program utilized a virtual human instructor to teach key concepts and provided animated vignettes that portray examples of good and bad responses to sexual harassment incidents.
A group of Centurions loyal to Caracalla ambushed him upon Geta's arrival, with Geta dying in his mother's arms.
The project, initiated by Jasmeen Patheja in August 2003, started out as a student project at Srishti School of Art Design and Technology in Bangalore and has since spread out to other cities in India.
Those eating at the restaurant beneath the studio heard the gunshots and told reporters that the owner came through the dining area shortly after, asking if anyone was a doctor.
In current practice, Take Back the Night events are not only inclusive of men, but include men as survivors, bystanders, and supporters.
The United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons (J/TIP) partners with agencies and organization overseas to rescue cybersex trafficked victims.
2014 Isla Vista killings, Misogynist terror attack perpetrated by 22 year old Elliot Rodger, by whom Sert was inspired.
"16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence", United Nations Population Fund; United Nations Population Fund.
Non-physical bashing In cases of non-physical bashing, the term is normally used with the intention of having a pejorative effect on the identified bashers by comparing them to perpetrators of criminal assaults.
According to an inquiry commissioned under Justice Gopalji Mahotra, 4,019 huts and 58 houses were vandalized or destroyed.
Victims may also be forced by their families to marry the rapist in order to restore the family's "honor.".
The term "Weinstein effect" came into use in October 2017, when media outlets began reporting on alleged sexual abuse perpetrated by film producer Harvey Weinstein.
A 19-year-old man was critically injured, while a 30-year-old woman and a 16-year-old girl suffered minor injuries.
He was placed as a patient at Bayne-Jones Army Community Hospital in Fort Johnson South, Louisiana during a training exercise at Fort Polk that simulated combat conditions.
Some of the skinhead groups are autonomous, while others are linked to the US-based organizations Blood & Honour and Hammerskin Nation.
In a landmark judgment on 31 March 2017, the Hyderabad High Court not only acquitted the accused in the murder case but also awarded him 1 lakhs compensation for putting him in jail for eight years.
Other state parties LJP and RJD demanded CBI investigation in High Court's decision and alleged that the state government is protecting the interests of Ranvir Sena.
Critical reception The book has been seen as the ability of Kashmiri women to tell their own story, lead the discourse, and show resistance.
The majority of participants in the crawl are from 18 to 20 years of age due to a tradition of many students at Leeds' Universities viewing the pub crawl as a "rite of passage." Perpetrator Owen Lawrence (born Owen Lawrence Eames, c.
The 2020 Toronto machete attack, in which the perpetrator was associated with an incel group, is the first known instance of someone charged with terrorism on the basis of a misogynist ideology.
Some of the men involved would take photos of the women in compromising positions including nude photos taken with hidden cameras.
Despite the fact that he made me suffer by screaming at me all day long and hitting me for the slightest mistake''.
The report revealed that the scratch marks on the woman's face were likely caused by the culprit's fingernails.
The USCCB instituted reforms to prevent future abuse by requiring background checks for Church employees.
In the Hindu epic Mahabharata, Babruvahana killed his father Arjun, but Arjun was brought back to life by his wife, the snake goddess Uloopi.
However, academic theory holds that rape culture does not necessarily have a single cause, and causes may be localized based on other social aspects of culture.
They found Gaona at the latter bar, where she worked as a prostitute, and initially only took her statements as a witness - however, an examination of fingerprints found on a wine bottle found at the crime scene.
Homicide committed by an intimate partner is often preceded by sexual acts obtained through physical force.
Pogrom Planning A report claims that there was a secret meeting in early July 1960, at a school in Sibsagar.
It symbolizes the anal rape of a man and is designed not only to be debilitating, but also to be sexually humiliating, through the symbolic feminization of the victim (usually a vanquished enemy), by turning him into an ergi.
The legal scholars state that the fast-track courts may not be fair in an impoverished country where millions of cases are backlogged, and there are an average of just 14 judges per million people – among the lowest in a United Nations study of 65 nations.
Under the new Motu Proprio, all Catholic dioceses throughout the world are required to establish stable mechanisms or systems through which people may submit reports of abuse or its cover-up by June 2020.
I'm the sane one," and that he would be "welcomed in Hell and embraced by the devil." He also reportedly admired the perpetrator of the WDBJ shooting for the fame received, and wrote that: "A man who was known by no one, is now known by everyone.
In popular culture "The Red Files" is a Bengali thriller film directed by Kingshuk Dey, based on the 1990 Bantala rape case in West Bengal.
Cast Reception Critical response On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 82%, based on 191 reviews, with an average rating of 7.2/10.
Academic studies In peer-reviewed studies which break down and distinguish homophobia separately between discrimination against gay men and lesbians, researchers have found statistically significant differences between heterosexual men and women in regards to their attitudes toward gay men.
Between 18:05 and 18:08, Davison twice opened fire with a legally-owned pump-action shotgun, killing his mother.
It observes November 25, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, additionally as "Roses Revolution Day".
On 4 March 1994 the Human Rights Council passed Resolution 1994/45 on the question of integrating the rights of women into the human rights mechanisms of the United Nations and the elimination of violence against women.
A Taiwanese study showed that victims feared being vocal about their assault, felt guilty for shaming their families, experienced sexual shame and self blame, and developed negative views of themselves as women.
On March 21, 2022, a stabbing took place at Malmö Latin School in Malmö, Sweden, during which 18-year-old Fabian Cederholm stabbed and killed two female teachers with an axe and a knife before disarming himself, calling emergency services and being arrested by first responders.
On 11 June, it was reported that a group of women in Ernakulam, Kerala, protested the rape by appearing in public with their shoulders and legs bared.
Other fields Transgender genocide has been examined by scholars of queer studies, hate studies, and other fields.
They accused the gay rights groups of intimidation, claiming that the artists had the right to free speech.
I also find much weight in the argument." Over the case, the judge charged five police officers for "wrongful confinement" using force and 14 others for mass rape.
The aforementioned Lex Iulia specifically criminalized per vim stuprum, unsanctioned sexual intercourse by force.
Beat my bitches’ asses dumb stupid, ayy." In 2019, Summer Walker released "Me" as a part of her debut album "Over It".
She joined King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital as a staff nurse after three-and-a-half years, and lived at the nursing hostel, across the road, for several years.
Roman Empire The only known fratricides in the Roman Empire are Romulus killing Remus and the reasonably well-known murder of Geta on the orders of his brother Caracalla in 211.
However, international human rights organizations have expressed serious doubts about the integrity of these investigations and the manner in which they were conducted.
The men in the village were assembled outside and interrogated about the militant activity while the village was searched.
Activists and community leaders have called for stricter laws and better enforcement to protect women and ensure justice in cases of sexual violence.
The trials eventually ended with six death sentences (three were hanged, and the sentences of the other three were commuted: one was acquitted and two received life imprisonment), eight cases of life imprisonment, and two shorter prison sentences.
Former Australian rules football player and then-Adelaide Crows senior coach Phil Walsh was killed by his adult son on 3 July 2015.
Ron Hiles OBE has performed over one thousand reconstructive surgery operations and trained hundreds of surgeons, who have treated thousands of patients.
The trial and the High Court convicted the accused particularly based on the statement of the victim and the eyewitnesses and a sentence of ten years was awarded under section 376 (2) (e) for raping a pregnant woman.
On 2 September, junior doctors marched towards Lalbazar from College Square demanding the resignation of the Kolkata Police Commissioner.
While girls were allegedly forced to undergo abortion, one was allegedly killed and buried on the shelter home campus.
In a subsequent court case brought by Leigh Day against the Ministry of Defence, a judge noted that the nationality of the warship in question (i.e., whether it was British or American) was unable to be determined.
While soldiers can download the training program for free on a website, efforts have been made to implement the game as part of the curriculum for schools in the U.S.
Virginity testing in Indonesia for female applicants to the military and police has been practiced since 1965 and is carried out during medical examinations.
Both the families also concurred to have such an alliance and thereby decided to conduct a ceremony for fixing their betrothal at Soumya's home on 1 February 2011.
Judicial proceedings began in October 2025, with a judge evaluating evidence and determining whether to proceed to trial.
"Fighting fire with fire: The effects of victim resistance in intimate versus stranger perpetrated assaults against females".
Earlier, he had called the girls' mother Beatriz, threatening that she would never see the girls or him again.
The procedures have also been found to have been negligent, with less than half using proper anesthetic.
Seven people, including one suspected member from the Ranvir Sena, were killed in Aurangabad district on 18 October.
Some of this work has involved cooperation with Nordic research institutions and equality-focused organizations, such as Gothenburg University, Samtökin '78 and others.
Older conflict tactics scale (CTS) methodology was criticized for excluding two important facets in gender violence: conflict-motivated aggression and control-motivated aggression.
Jignesh Mevani, a social activist and lawyer from Gujarat in western India, wrote on Twitter that "The George Floyd of India are far too many".
Packer on October 2, 1976, at the priesthood session of the 146th Semiannual General Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).
Promoting the equal participation of men and women Sometimes known as gender balance, promoting the equal participation of men and women in SSR processes and security sector institutions is a method of strengthening local ownership as well as increasing representation and effectiveness.
The demand for sex trafficking can also be facilitated by some pimps' and traffickers' desire for women whom they can exploit as workers because they do not require wages, safe working circumstances, and agency in choosing customers.
Popular approaches mainly discuss "the comparability of violence in lesbian and gay male relationships (same sex violence) or draw on feminist theories of gendered power relations, comparing domestic violence between lesbians and heterosexual women".
Religion Hinduism In South Asia, many hijras live in well-defined, organized, all-hijra communities, led by a guru.
On October 1, 2015, a school shooting occurred at the Umpqua Community College campus near Roseburg, Oregon, United States.
There is little evidence that such "torture instruments" were used, and the examples exhibited in "Torture Museums" are generally modern artifacts.
Although there is no agreed upon definition of sexual violence, commonly applied ones encompass any act of a sexual nature or attempt to obtain a sexual act carried out through coercion.
In 2021, half of recorded rape offences (22 of 44) were in the army and just under two-thirds (27) concerned personnel at the lowest rank of Private or equivalent.
See also 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder 2019 India doctors' strike Aruna Shanbaug case Censorship of Wikipedia Rape in India Violence against healthcare professionals by country § India References External links Media related to 2024 Kolkata rape and murder at Wikimedia Commons
Unlike other topics within feminist legal theory, non-subordination theory focuses specifically on certain sexual behaviors, including control of women's sexuality, sexual harassment, pornography, and violence against women generally.
A police spokesperson said that groups opposing Besharmi Morcha had "threatened to hold a 'violent protest'".
A person's gender (along with other characteristics, such as age, class, ethnicity/clan/tribe/caste, and sexual orientation) plays an important part in his or her own security needs.
According to Bangladeshi officials, the two Indian nationals were smugglers and they attacked a BGB patrol party, which prompted BGB to retaliate.
They confessed to the police that they raped her, strangled her to death, and disposed of her body in the river.
Official videos from the company were viewed over a billion times, including a paid subscription service on its website, and an estimated 680 million views on the tube site Pornhub, where the official channel was among the site's top 20 most viewed.
But wherever there was further resistance, arson, murder, even rape and abduction of women followed.
The rate continued to drop, with the newborn circumcision rate in Ontario in 1994–95 dropping to 29.9%.
He was supported by his mother and lawyers, but when asked to present an alibi for her son, Lyubov Kulishova was unable to tell where he was or what he was doing at the time of the crimes.
This survival reaction is a reflex; it automatically occurs without one's conscious choice, and one cannot stop it from happening.
After the partition riots, the next major ethnic conflagration in Assam occurred during the Bengali language movement in 1960.
To contextualize the emphasis biblical authors had for this prohibition compare it to Leviticus 18:19's prohibition against a man having intercourse with a menstruous woman or the eight versus of Numbers 35:1-8 spent on describing city planning.
After the arrest, the young man was interrogated for several hours before investigators conclusively decided that he was innocent and let him go.
It is under-reported, under-prosecuted, and legal in many countries, due in part to the belief that through marriage, a woman gives irrevocable consent for her husband to have sex with her when he wishes.
A fact-finding team of the National Commission for Women (NCW) visited the district and said that the episode is not just a case of rape, robbery and molestation, but points to a larger conspiracy.
In May 2020, the Donaulied became the subject of public debate in Germany as the Passau student Corinna Schütz launched an online petition against "beer tent sexism".
This practice is legal in many countries and is a form of sexual violence, since the children involved are unable to give or withhold their consent.
Alvaro Castillo, shot and killed his father Rafael Castillo before committing a school shooting at Orange High School in North Carolina, injuring two people before he was tackled by school personnel on August 30, 2006.
Some male rappers have referenced or mocked their female counterparts in lyrics, including instances involving domestic abuse or violence.
Domestic violence (DV) is violence that occurs in a domestic setting, such as in a marriage or cohabitation.
In May 2014 two girls aged 14 and 16 were allegedly gang raped and murdered in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, though later investigations have alleged suicide as the cause of death in this instance.
On 7 April 1992, the Director General of Police of Kerala directed the Crime Branch section of the Kerala police to take up the investigation.
As such laws were relaxed in the second half of the 20th century, drag appeared in works of wide popular relevance, such as Some Like It Hot (1959) and The Birdcage (1996), and the Australian film The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert (1994).
Christianity, Social Tolerance, and Homosexuality: Gay People in Western Europe from the Beginning of the Christian Era to the Fourteenth Century.
Laws by country See also Effects and aftermath of rape Rape culture Raptio Types of marriage Types of rape Rape by proxy Notes == References ==
Reporting any evidence of bullying is often not an option for LGBTQ students which is why it is not reported as much.
On 28 May 2002, Indonesian maid Sundarti Supriyanto killed her employer Angie Ng and Ng's daughter Crystal Poh, and set fire to Ng's Bukit Merah office in Singapore.
Nordic Digital Rights and Equality Foundation (abbreviated NORDREF) is a Nordic non-profit organization focused on issues related to digital rights, equality and online safety.
After killing Orlov, Kulishov was ordered to undergo a forensic psychiatric examination, which concluded that he was incapable of standing trial.
Ghosh was given two polygraph tests over an alleged cover-up of the rape and allegations of financial fraud and irregularities at the college and hospital.
Elizabeth Bates from the University of Cumbria found that a common experience for male intimate partner violence victims was that no one believed them, or were responded to by laughter, including the police.
On 18 July 2020, 17-year-old Bernadette Walker disappeared in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, England.
Significance of the case The acquittal of Santosh Singh in 1999 led to the investigating agency CBI, challenge the judgment in the Delhi high court on 29 February 2000.
Glenn Spaulding was the first to sort viable whole human and animal spermatozoa using a flow cytometer, and utilized the sorted motile rabbit sperm for artificial insemination.
She added: "Cruellest of all it's likely to mean some members of her family and friends will go on hoping she might be alive and might someday come back into their lives".
Census statistics report that in countries such as China, the male to female ratio is as high as 120 men for every 100 women.
She was abducted on 15 April from her hostel in Srinagar, allegedly raped, tortured, killed, and her body mutilated by her captors, who accused her of being a "mukhbir" (lit.
Later, on April 29, a child restraint seat for vehicles belonging to one of the girls was found floating, and it was reported that bloody remains were found in Gimeno's boat the day before.
Employees responded with a petition denouncing the response and several female employees wrote about their own experiences on Twitter.
"In the Egyptian parliamentary debate surrounding the decree to remove the 'marriage loophole', some lawmakers have objected to altering the existing law on the grounds that it provided raped women with their only chance to marry, since after having been raped, no other man would want them.
Nowadays, there are commercialized technologies that detect the sex of a chicken embryo within the egg, called in-ovo sexing.
Both are sexual, obviously, but also his lack of hormones greatly changes his relationships with his group of close friends and he finds it very difficult to accept the fact that they begin to have girlfriends and then to get married.
Also, the General Law on Education's article 5-A condemns inequalities and discriminatory practices between or towards students when based on traditional gendered roles (1990).
They do nothing to prevent or reduce violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity/expression.
Intimate partners In 2022, research by King's College London found that experience of intimate partner violence (IPV), a category that includes sexual abuse, was three times more prevalent among partners of military personnel than among partners of civilians.
Scotland Yard's Operation Yewtree in the UK, an investigation triggered by the Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal, led to convictions for the sexual assault of women or girls against Max Clifford, Rolf Harris and Dave Lee Travis, all well-known men in the media and entertainment industry.
Satyam Babu in the case under section 302 of IPC for murder and 10 years of rigorous imprisonment under section 376 of IPC for rape.
The partition of India During the partition of India, some 100,000 women said that they were kidnapped and raped.
Reza said that the two suspects — Mukul Alam (28) and Md Majid (29) — bore a striking resemblance to those caught on the CCTV camera at the Convent of Jesus and Mary school on March 14, one of them having 75 percent similarity.
Callisto's approach is sensitive to trauma when prompting survivors to create this time-stamped record.
Part of the work of the activist "barefoot lawyer" Chen Guangcheng also concerned excesses of this nature.
This helps the movement incorporate other feminist concerns such as domestic violence and sexual abuse within the home.
Vadakkel testified in 2018 as a key witness in the rape case against Bishop Franco Mulakkal of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Jalandhar.
The objective of the initiative was to make violence against women and domestic violence a crime under EU law, along with already criminalized conduct such as cybercrime, sexual exploitation and money laundering for example.
Choy's stepfather, Ken Croskery, became active in the Sensible Sentencing Trust, a lobby group campaigning for longer sentences.
It is also an act of violence that can be perpetrated by parents, caregivers, acquaintances, and strangers, as well as intimate partners.
Bijnor Times) were actively complicit in contributing to the proliferation of rumors and sustaining the riot, via mis-reporting and partisan editorializing.
The incident took place in the village of Pararia, located 30 km (19 mi) from the temple town of Deoghar (in present day Jharkhand).
Research suggests that 16% of girls, particularly in the far North regions where child marriages are highly common, try to flatten their own breasts in an attempt to delay early sexual maturity and early marriage.
Aftermath A Maryland Air Force base was inspired by the Dallas shooting to initiate a program teaching personnel to recognize the warning signs that "introverted, sexless individuals" may be drawn to the "incel" online subculture.
Recent estimates suggest that rape conception happens between 25,000 and 32,000 times each year in the U.S.
The police brought the naked bodies of the officers to the emergency department of Calcutta National Medical College at around 11:30 pm.
Erin Pizzey, writer and founder of Refuge, said Silverman 'was a martyr to the indifference of the Canadian Government, and we will never forget his name,' and noted that she worried there will be no change in the 'stone-hearted' Canadian government.
He has GB Syndrome and as a result had badly affected his nervous system and his two legs are paralysed.
In July 2020, protests broke out in Turkey after a university student called Pınar Gültekin was strangled, burnt and murdered by her ex-boyfriend.
An eleventh person died on October 28, 2021, after being paralyzed from the neck down and never leaving the hospital.
The organization works through partnerships with civil society organizations, academic institutions, and public authorities, with funding from the Nordic Gender Equality Fund, the Erasmus program and elsewhere.
